How would you like to take a 12 week 90 hour training program and be hired practically the minute after you ve been handed your certificate That s the alluring promise from Farmingdale State College in New York for its new natural gas technician certificate program which is a partnership with National Grid an energy provider. The claim made on an online blog is not just hype. It s basically true said Professor Marjaneh Issapour who heads the program. Every one of our first 12 graduates got a job with National Grid. As the program grows that may not be the case. But others could be interested in establishing such a talent pipeline given the projected shortages in this and related technical fields. In a 2016 study of member organizations by the Associated Equipment Distributors a trade association representing more than 800 equipment distributors manufacturers and industry service companies 50 percent reported that the inability to find qualified technicians hinders business growth and increases costs. More than 60 percent said that the skills gap made it difficult to meet customer demand. The Farmingdale certificate program which began last summer already has over 130 applicants. It shows there s a need for these kinds of programs Professor Issapour said. And while the college hopes some of the students return for associate s or bachelor s degrees it realizes not all will. Not everyone is going to want to get a college degree she said. And honestly not everyone should. California Institute of Technology. Base 11A collaboration with a major university and a nonprofit organization that identifies high potential students who have shown interest but lack access and resources That s the Caltech Base 11 partnership in which community college students from throughout California are mentored by Caltech graduate students through on campus summer internships and semester long programs. The emphasis is on STEM science technology engineering and math majors in general and aerospace engineering a major employer in the state in particular. It has worked. We reviewed the students who have participated in both programs and the vast majority have gone on to four year colleges and several of them have a full ride said Beverley McKeon the Caltech faculty director for the program. Others she said have gotten high profile internships including one with the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Base 11 the nonprofit partner offers two similar STEM career accelerator programs with the University of Southern California s School of Engineering and the University of California Irvine. 