They said the G. O.P. plan was using revenues from universities to offset corporate tax breaks not to further any educational or social mission. Many middle class families could also see tax savings under the plan. There is a difference between directing institutions to make sure they re using their resources toward their stated mission missions of education missions of access versus directing institutions toward filling gaps in Washington and this seems to be the latter Sean Decatur president of Kenyon College said Friday. Supporters of the proposed tax said it was an acknowledgment that universities increasingly were being run like businesses with tuition continuing to rise and administrative ranks growing especially at the wealthiest institutions. Representative Tom Reed a New York Republican whose district includes Cornell University supports the proposed tax though his main wish is to force schools with large endowments to spend more of them on tuition assistance. Like other proponents of an endowment tax he noted that private foundations which also are nonprofits under the tax code already pay a tax of 1 to 2 percent on their investment income. Rather than fight for special treatment universities should join me in recognizing that young adults are facing a college debt crisis as a result of the uncontrolled escalating costs Mr. Reed said in an email. We should work together to solve this runaway price issue once and for all. The tax would affect about 140 colleges and universities according to a list compiled by The Chronicle of Higher Education. Universities have been fiercely protective of their endowments and have ramped up lobbying efforts to keep control over them. Terry Hartle senior vice president of the American Council on Education a trade group said colleges and universities should be treated differently from foundations. Private foundations give money away that s not the purpose of colleges and universities Mr. Hartle said. If you wanted to treat them the same you d apply this to all colleges and universities regardless of the value of their endowments not just a handful of private ones. At Agnes Scott College in Decatur Ga. which has an endowment of more than 00 million the president Elizabeth Kiss said that most students were minorities and 40 percent had incomes low enough to qualify for federal Pell grants. Because of the endowment she said We are able to give financial aid to basically pretty much all of our students. The tax she said would amount to a 50 000 cut to an overall budget of 2 million. This is an institution that had a 1 percent pay raise this year so it s not like we re fat cats Ms. Kiss said. A spokesman for Yale University Tom Conroy said that the plan would impose a permanent tax on student aid teaching research and community services at Yale. He pointed out that the universities with the wealthiest endowments are also those that have the resources to offer need blind admissions and the strongest support to poor and middle income students. It is disappointing that the legislation relies so heavily on colleges and universities and especially the universities with some of the strongest records on financial aid to raise revenue to enable tax cuts Mr. Conroy said. We hope that the House of Representatives will reconsider these proposals. Ivy League schools generally have the biggest endowments and they have been growing fatter since 2008 in part through high earning investments like commercial real estate venture capital and hedge funds. At Yale for instance the endowment helped by an 11. 3 percent return on investments after fees grew to 7 billion in the 2017 fiscal year. Harvard s endowment helped by an 8. 1 percent return stood at 7 billion. The size of some of the endowments suggests that they could weather a 1. 4 percent tax on earnings. But some university officials said that they must spend carefully to withstand occasional market downturns and that large portions of many endowments have spending restrictions placed by donors. 