Take the median lifetime earnings of business majors the most popular undergraduate degree. The typical graduate earns .86 million over a lifetime. When you put business graduates side by side with those who graduated with what are considered low paying majors you ll see that those who are slightly above the median salary in their fields are not that far behind the business grads. For example an English major in the 60th percentile makes .76 million in a lifetime a major in psychology .57 million and a history major .64 million. Myth 2 Women want to have it all. Women are now the clear majority on college campuses making up 56 percent of students enrolled this fall. They are also more likely than men to graduate. But when it comes to selecting a major what women choose tends to segregate them into lower paying fields such as education and social services according to a report that Georgetown University s Center on Education and the Workforce will publish later this year. Just look at some of the highest paying fields and the proportion of women who major in them business economics 31 percent chemical engineering 28 percent computer science 20 percent electrical engineering 10 percent mechanical engineering 8 percent . Women can t win even as they dominate at every level of higher education said Anthony P. Carnevale director of the Georgetown center. Dr. Carnevale wouldn t speculate as to why women make their choices. But he notes that if the proportion of women in fields where men dominate increased by just 10 percent the gender pay gap would narrow considerably from 78 cents paid to women for every dollar men receive to 90 cents for every dollar men receive. Myth 3 Choice of major matters more than choice of college. Not so. In seven states Arkansas Colorado Minnesota Tennessee Texas Virginia and Washington students can search public databases for early earnings of graduates of institutions within the state. And those databases show that students who graduate from more selective schools tend to make more money. After all the better the college the better the professional network opportunities through alumni parents of classmates and eventually classmates themselves. These undergraduates are more able to pursue majors in lower paying fields because their networks help them land good jobs. Arts humanities and social science majors are more prevalent on elite campuses than at second tier colleges where students tend to pick vocational majors like business education and health. In all more than half of students at less selective schools major in career focused subjects at elite schools less than a quarter do according to an analysis by the website FiveThirtyEight of the 78 most selective schools in Barron s rankings compared with 1 800 less selective schools. Students at selective colleges are allowed to explore their intellectual curiosity as undergraduates because they will get their job training in graduate school or have access to a network that gets them top jobs regardless of their undergraduate major Dr. Carnevale said. They are also more likely to have two majors than students at second tier colleges who tend to be more financially needy and have to work affording less time to double major. One tip Complementary majors with overlapping requirements are easier to juggle but two unrelated majors probably yield bigger gains in the job market said Richard N. Pitt an associate professor of sociology at Vanderbilt University who has studied the rise of the double major. It increases your breadth of knowledge he said. Myth 4 Liberal arts majors are unemployable. The liberal arts is a favorite target of politicians with the latest salvo coming from the governor of Kentucky Matt Bevin. If you re studying interpretive dance God bless you but there s not a lot of jobs right now in America looking for people with that as a skill set Governor Bevin said in a speech in September. Interpretive dance may not be in demand but the competencies that liberal arts majors emphasize writing synthesis problem solving are sought after by employers. A 2017 study by David J. Deming an associate professor of education and economics at Harvard found jobs requiring both the so called soft skills and thinking skills have seen the largest growth in employment and pay in the last three decades. One knock on the liberal arts is that it s difficult to find a first job. But a study by Burning Glass Technologies a Boston based company that analyzes job market trends concluded that if liberal arts graduates gain proficiency in one of eight technical skills such as social media or data analysis their prospects of landing entry level jobs increase substantially. The long held belief by parents and students that liberal arts graduates are unemployable ignores the reality of the modern economy where jobs require a mix of skills not easily packaged in a college major said George Anders author of You Can Do Anything The Surprising Power of a Useless Liberal Arts Education. In his book Mr. Anders profiles graduates with degrees in philosophy sociology and linguistics in jobs as diverse as sales finance and market research. Once C. E.O. s see liberal arts graduates in action Mr. Anders said they come aboard to the idea that they need more of them. 