Whatever their proficiency students must grapple with both languages said Jos de Pi rola the El Paso program director. It can be a shock to be stressed in this way but it makes you grow. Alessandra Narv ez Varela used to walk across that border almost every day from Ju rez to classes at the University of Texas and to help out in the restaurant her family owns in El Paso. She has a B. S. in biology and a B. A. in creative writing. She spent a year in medical school but it didn t feel like it was supposed to feel she said. Poetry did. Now 31 in El Paso s bilingual M. F.A. program she is writing to reconcile her dual identity and to give voice to women s issues especially involving female anatomy that initially drew her to medicine. Once you have that kind of conversation with the body you can t let it go she said. Oddly while Ms. Narv ez Varela s deepest roots lie in Spanish she did not feel confident composing poetry in her native language. Her college writing had always been in English. Maybe the Spanish speaker in me felt relegated to second class citizen status after adopting English as the language for my poetry she said. I attended a presentation Ms. Narv ez Varela gave at a national writer s conference in Los Angeles in which she explained how a workshop in the program had helped her find her Spanish voice. She had written a poem in Spanish called Ovarian Cancer filled with graphic imagery she compared cancer to a bleeding fetus . Classmates had told her the beat pattern didn t flow and criticized her use of rhyme. Ms. Narv ez Varela realized she had been unconsciously translating from English. She projected on a screen a copy of the poem hand edited by classmates and an English translation pointing out to the audience phrases she had originally conceived in English. Spanish and the way it s used to create music in poetry differs radically in terms of syllables and rhyme she discovered. It was a humbling workshop for me but an enlightening one too. Ms. Narv ez Varela went on to explore Mexican and American identities using Spanglish the mixing of languages in the same sentences. In her poem Real Mexican she describes in raw and troubling language a Mexican American ex convict so confused about his Hispanic identity he doesn t know what name to call himself. In the opening line the character says Tony To o Antonio Anthony it doesn t matter honey.... I had never before adopted a persona that explored Spanglish s complexity and its meaning to me as a Mexican citizen naturalized in the U. S. Ms. Narv ez Varela said. I realized this was a projection of my own anxieties as a Mexican American. I had unconsciously judged others by the way they spoke Spanglish. She said she was trying to show how the character s use of Spanglish is a vital manifestation of his identity as a marginalized member of both societies. Writing the poem helped her see the artistry of a language as valid and beautiful as English or Spanish as hybrid as African American English and therefore as deserving of a place in poetry. Huizache a journal of Latino literature has just published Real Mexican. 