He explained his own mental translation process this way If I m writing a character who is Spanish dominant they talk and think within me in Spanish and I translate most of it into English. Some words refuse translations sometimes it s the joy of the word or the energy it pulses with in the original Spanish sentence. For example Mr. Diaz freely employs English expletives in his work but sometimes opts for rough Spanish equivalents. Ms. Santiago author of the memoir When I Was Puerto Rican and an M. F.A. graduate of Sarah Lawrence College writes entire drafts bilingually. I write as fast as I can and don t worry whether what appears on the page is in English or in Spanish she said. Later when I m editing I will translate almost all of the Spanish into English if it s for publication in that language. English and Spanish are for me the same language. In the El Paso program faculty members strive to respond effectively to students who write in English Spanish or both. Professors try to accommodate students in individual conferences by working in their preferred language. I ll speak in English and they ll speak in Spanish said Daniel Chac n one of 10 faculty members. Then I might reiterate and clarify in Spanish. Whatever their level of proficiency students must grapple with both languages. They have to make the effort to bridge the gap said the director Jos de Pi rola. It can be a shock to be stressed in this way but it makes you grow. In one of Mr. de Pi rola s workshops a student who spoke little Spanish led a group critique of a student s short story. The story was in English but he could not understand the group members who spoke in Spanish and had to turn for explanations to fully bilingual classmates. Many of the readings are available in translation but even the students who feel challenged reading in the second language are encouraged to wrestle with the original texts. Some rely on tools like Google Translate despite its limitations for interpreting literary language. When the Spanish speakers read American poets in English and vice versa it changes their relationship to their own tradition Ms. Cote Botero said. She described how she might teach students to experiment with their writing by contrasting English and Spanish versions of the sonnet. She explained that Shakespeare standardized the English line using a steady five beat pattern. It s closest to English speech and to the heartbeat she said. One widely quoted example is Shakespeare s opening line Shall I compare thee to a summer s day The Spanish form on the other hand is based on a 14 syllable line. When students mix the two interesting things appear she said. By remaining inside the boundaries of your own tradition you re more at risk for repeating yourself. With a bilingual approach Mr. Chac n said you can play with your own language a little more. James Joyce was able to play with language because he grew up with Gaelic and paid attention to its sound. To expose his students to writing styles in other languages he adds to his reading lists translations of Japanese Zen koans and the ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle. By encouraging students to explore different literary traditions and settings the El Paso program is about more than just two languages. 