We don t want our students to pick a field because it pays and overlook another field because it doesn t pay for an internship said Meredith Daw executive director of career advancement at the University of Chicago. There are 2 000 placements each year through Chicago s Jeff Metcalf Internship Program. Employers agree to cover the salary at least 1 an hour or the local minimum wage whichever is higher. But when an organization can t afford to pay 40 percent can t the university provides a 000 grant for a 10 week stint. Starting last year the university s Odyssey Scholars low income students like Ms. Eisenberg have been guaranteed a paid internship for their first summer. That Ms. Daw said is when they are at the greatest disadvantage compared to their peers with more of the social capital like parental connections needed to find internships on their own. Last summer 232 students participated. Ms. Eisenberg interned at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta where she developed a machine learning model for its library. The grant helped defray airfare her summer sublet and other expenses. Pace University posted more than 4 000 internships last year about 40 percent of them unpaid and provides grants for many internships in the nonprofit sector. We re not trying to proselytize with these students but we d like their eyes to be open to the second and third sectors in our economy said Rebecca Tekula executive director of Pace s Wilson Center for Social Entrepreneurship. The center pairs students with nonprofits in and around New York City like Greyston Bakery Housing Works and the Legal Aid Society. Elizabeth Pooran interned last year at Senior Planet Exploration Center in Chelsea a community space designed to teach technology including digital photography and the internet to older adults to encourage them to lead independent connected lives. And Latino U College Access a fledgling nonprofit that works with first generation college students has used Pace interns for three of its five years. I always say that my organization was built with the support and by the hands of Pace University interns said Shirley Acevedo Buontempo the founder. Students in the Wilson internship program receive 6 an hour or 480 for eight weeks. Some 120 students have participated since 2009 with grants totaling about 00 000. 