Macalester College too subsidizes internships involving social missions like helping integrate tuberculosis services into Georgia s health system and fighting transgender discrimination. Last year about 50 interns took part. This is an opportunity to try on a career no matter what their interest or major or their economic situation is said Mindy Deardurff dean of career development at the St. Paul campus. Especially for our students who have socioeconomic need if we can get them in and let them try out some of the things they are so passionate about it might get them over that hump of worrying about whether they can afford it. Amherst College distributed million this past summer 40 percent more than it did the previous year helping 229 students take unpaid internships with nonprofit organizations and small start ups. The money came from alumni gifts and 00 000 from the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation which supports low income college students. Because more than 80 percent of Amherst students go to graduate or professional school some of the money is used to prepare them by financing research internships study abroad and independently devised programs said Emily C. Griffen director of Amherst s Loeb Center for Career Exploration and Planning. Michael Loeb president and chief executive of Loeb Enterprises is an alumnus who has taken a particular interest in internships. In addition to offering paid stints at his own company he has just started a program that matches start ups in New York City with Amherst interns and covers their pay and living expenses. It s not surprising that alumni favor their alma mater. Over the past five years alumni and parents have donated million to Colgate University enabling it to support some 200 students each year who want to take unpaid or low paid internships typically with nonprofits the creative arts or to do research. Last summer it spent 66 000 said Michael Sciola associate vice president of institutional advancement and career initiatives. Colgate students can also come up with their own grant proposal and the university will help them find a host who will turn that into an internship. We do allow students to do a self designed summer he said. For example twin brothers received a grant to pay for travel to work on an archaeological expedition in Alaska. 