The key Mr. Clark believes is not to lower standards or to enroll so many legacies that other priorities such as increasing racial and socioeconomic diversity suffer as a result. Those two goals aren t mutually exclusive he said. Other measurements used by selective colleges have nothing to do with a student s accomplishments or attributes and everything to do with a college s agenda. About one in five institutions allot considerable importance to demonstrated interest the degree to which applicants convey their desire to enroll if accepted according to a survey by the National Association for College Admission Counseling. The strongest expression of demonstrated interest is applying for binding early decision a policy that favors affluent students who don t need to compare financial aid offers and one that some colleges use to fill half their seats. Beyond that technology has made it easier to track the number of times an applicant engages with a college by visiting the campus contacting an admissions officer responding to an email . This valuable information helps officers gauge who s most likely to enroll which can influence who gets admitted in the first place. A higher yield the percentage of accepted students who actually enroll is widely seen as a measure of status. The problem is that savvy students who know colleges are watching them can tilt the odds in their favor said Nancy Leopold executive director of CollegeTracks a Maryland nonprofit group that helps low income and first generation students get into college Demonstrated interest is biased against kids who don t know the game exists or who don t have the time or money to play it. What do colleges really cherish The answer is influenced greatly by the entities they seek to impress. U. S. News &amp World Report and other college guides not to mention bond rating agencies rely heavily on conventional admissions metrics like ACT/SAT scores and acceptance rates to evaluate institutions. A college president might wish to attract more creative thinkers but accomplishing that goal won t help his college s ranking. Generally colleges are risk averse. Rocking the boat with a newfangled admissions process could hurt their reputations. The challenge for many admissions offices is to make a change but not so much change or innovation that you re risking the position you re in said Ms. Roper Doten of Olin. Asking students to do more could scare off would be applicants. Colleges seek validation said Lloyd Thacker executive director of the Education Conservancy a nonprofit group that has sought to reform college admissions. Without a real external incentive for colleges to care about broadening their understanding of what makes an applicant promising they don t seem likely to change the definition on their own. 