Now in his most high profile cause of the moment he has asserted that Harvard University s affirmative action policies amount to an illegal quota system that denies high achieving Asian American students admission in numbers commensurate with their qualifications. He has already forced Harvard to turn over under court seal years of highly sensitive data about demographics test scores and even some personal essays and he now has a powerful ally in the Justice Department which is looking into a similar complaint. Mr. Blum said he was acting on a pure principle that people should never be judged by the color of their skin. Most Americans don t want race to be part of your application to college he said. They don t want the police to use race as a profiling tool to prevent crime. They don t want prosecutors to use race in the makeup of a jury. Your race and your ethnicity should not be something used to help you or harm you in your life s endeavors. How a financial adviser without a law degree has managed to bring so many cases that make as he calls it big law is a testament to his methods. He is a matchmaker bringing together two forces students and others who believe they are being mistreated in the name of racial justice and conservative donors who finance his work and that of the high powered establishment Republican lawyers who take the cases to court. In the current environment Mr. Blum has been called many things including a courageous man of the moment willing to take on entrenched politically correct policies and a tool of rich conservatives trying to extinguish efforts to help historically oppressed minorities overcome the long shadow of racism. In most of his cases Mr. Blum either sues under the name of his own organizations or he recruits plaintiffs to challenge racial policies he thinks are unfair. Although he claims to have 22 000 members in his group Students for Fair Admissions the plaintiff in lawsuits against Harvard and other colleges Harvard says in court papers that he is a gadfly whose organization is nothing but his alter ego. Rachel Kleinman senior counsel at the legal defense said that Mr. Blum s opposition to affirmative action was related to this fear of white people that their privilege is being taken away from them and given to somebody else who they see as less deserving. 