In the Texas affirmative action case he told a friend that he was looking for a white applicant to the University of Texas at Austin his own alma mater to challenge its admissions criteria. The friend passed the word to his daughter Abigail Fisher. About six months later the university rejected Ms. Fisher s application. I immediately said Hey can we call Edward she recalled in an interview. The case went to the Supreme Court twice and though Ms. Fisher was portrayed as a less than stellar student vilified as supporting a racist agenda and ultimately lost she said she still believed in Mr. Blum. I think we started a conversation she said. Edward obviously is not going to just lie down and play dead. Big Donors Elite LawyersFor much of the year Mr. Blum works out of a gray shingle house in South Thomaston Me. overlooking Penobscot Bay in a stark landscape famously painted by Andrew Wyeth. He has a consulting business analyzing esoteric municipal bonds for a handful of wealthy families. But hiring lawyers for his kind of litigation takes a lot of money and Mr. Blum has found it. The DonorsTrust which distributes money from conservative and libertarian contributors to various causes and nonprofits related to DonorsTrust gave almost .9 million to support Mr. Blum s work from 2010 to 2015 said Lawson R. Bader the trust s president citing the most recent publicly available figures. Most of that money came from the Searle Freedom Trust according to tax records and Kimberly O. Dennis the president and chief executive of the trust which was founded by Daniel C. Searle of the Searle pharmaceutical company. The goals of the Searle trust as stated on its website are to create an environment that promotes individual freedom and economic liberties while encouraging personal responsibilities and a respect for traditional American values. The Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation another small government group gave 00 000 to the DonorsTrust for Mr. Blum s causes in 2014 and 0 000 in 2012 tax records show. 