_____The editorial board of The Dallas Morning News Even when we strip away the politics the content of Education Secretary Betsy DeVos s message Thursday about sexual violence on college campuses leaves us queasy. As skeptics that victims of sexual assault will be as fairly treated as they were under Obama era Title IX protections the members of The Dallas Morning News editorial board also welcome a constructive conversation about unintended consequences or confusion resulting from the 2011 guidelines. The only thing that gives the group temporary comfort is that nothing changes today. The rules remain in place during a notice and comment period. Read more To the Editor Re The Real Campus Scourge by Frank Bruni column Sept. 3 Yes loneliness is a campus scourge. Two Septembers ago I arrived early outside the class where I was to teach first year writing at UCLA only to find my students each standing alone and staring at their phones. I recalled for them my college experience of making friends outside my classes and I asked how they make friends. One student said We don t. Later I learned that another student was eating her meals in her room because she hated being alone in the crowded dining hall. A third student wrote about how social media undermines the very goals it proposes to achieve linking her library research to her experience of loneliness. Since then I ve designed some group assignments. I ve added an informal meeting space running into one another there may let them form friendships through proximity. UWE REINHARDTPRINCETON N. J.The writer is a professor of political economy at Princeton. To the Editor I just sent Frank Bruni s great column to my nieces and nephews who are just starting college. So many of us judge our internal feelings by the standards of others well curated social media lives. If you looked at my Facebook feed you would think that I spent every day at the beach this summer. I did not. No one posts about the boring sad parts of our lives. Going away to college is a very lonely experience. I was very unhappy freshman year and my parents wanted me to transfer to a college close to home so I could live with them. I am glad I stuck it out. I made lifelong friends in college. I met my husband sophomore year. Equally important I learned resilience. 