The new graduation rates by contrast captured more than 1. 5 million community college students. Even though that group included more than 710 000 part time students who are often less likely to graduate extending the time frame to eight years increased the average graduation rate to 27 percent. But transfers are where community colleges really shine. Some 510 000 students transferred before graduating bringing the combined graduation and transfer rate up to 60 percent. Including all of the part time and returning students and looking over eight years boosted North Shore s graduation rate to 35 percent. Another 19 percent transferred before graduation. Others were still working toward a degree. All told more than half of Mr. Burton s students had a successful outcome not as the old rates suggested fewer than one in five. The for profit picture is not so rosy. The two year programs Mr. Gunderson chose for comparison make up less than one fifth of all for profit enrollment. Four year programs at for profits have much lower graduation rates than those of comparable public institutions. Combined they had a 34 percent graduation rate under the old measures. And in contrast with community colleges the new measures make for profits look worse dropping their average graduation rate to 32 percent. For profit students seldom bring their credits elsewhere. Including transfer students increases the average for profit success rate to just 39 percent compared with 60 percent at community colleges. In other words Mr. Gunderson had it backward. The new measures suggest that community colleges are much more successful than for profit colleges not much less. They are also far cheaper and leave the average student with much less debt. Some for profit results are catastrophic. South University a Savannah Ga. based for profit college. In 2008 it enrolled 12 233 new students in its online degree programs more than the University of Georgia and Georgia State University combined. The old measures show South University with a mind boggling 2. 4 percent graduation rate. But as with community colleges most South University students are nontraditional. What happens when all the students are counted over a full eight years Answer The graduation rate increases to just 7. 8 percent. Add in transfers 8. 1 percent. Include those still enrolled 8. 5 percent. Three years after leaving college only 23 percent of South University students have paid back even a dollar on the principal of their student loans probably because nearly all of them failed to earn a degree. 