In the post performance discussion the faculty members backtrack What could the instructor have done ahead of time to prevent problems What could the instructor do in the moment And afterward Approaches involve addressing not just what is taught but how and why. The professor might explain why he chose the case study pause the discussion or email the class acknowledging the disruption and perhaps apologizing. Getting faculty prepared is why Kristie A. Ford director of the Center for Leadership Teaching and Learning at Skidmore invited the Michigan troupe as part of a semester series she calls Teaching in a Time of Turmoil. Regardless of discipline we cannot shut out the world she said. It is seeping into our classrooms and we need to hone our skills for how to productively engage with it. Classmates in Dr. Mariotti s seminar gathered in a library lecture room overlooking a sunny quad to share with a reporter what bothers them. At the top of the list professors who expose their views on current affairs. Conner Joyce a moderate Republican majoring in political science scratched a double major in philosophy because a professor kept comparing Trump to Hitler. Instead of engaging he said you shrink back I will just write my paper take my test and move on. Sydney Cardenas a Trump voter objects to liberal students special alliances with liberal professors. They make those jokes she said and instructors slyly signal approval under the table or with a giggle. You expect politics in political science she said but she was irritated that her education class was extremely political for no reason whatsoever. Camille Martin and Mikaela Manion left identifying students who have strong religious backgrounds face prickly moments too. People can be hostile when Christianity and the whole evangelical movement are brought up in class Ms. Martin said. It triggers me. Ms. Manion felt her anger rise in class when a student dismissed religion as the opiate of the masses. It was very derogatory toward Christianity and that was very hard to deal with she said. Later she wrote liberation theology a term that marries religion and social justice in large pink uppercase letters in her notebook. In the seminar silent meditation over Dr. Mariotti dove into the assignment which was to speak with someone holding an opposing political view. She would use their reactions to help draft ground rules for class discussion. For example notice your own bias so you can grapple more generously with others. 