Enter open access. Papers are free the money comes from the authors who must pay to be published. There are well respected open access journals with standards as high as traditional ones. What happened and what few expected was the birth of open access journals that will take just about any paper for a fee. They don t bother with the pesky expense of reviewers and they publish only online so their costs are minimal. They send blandishing emails to scientists inviting them to publish with them. There are now thousands of them about as many as there are legitimate journals. And because the names of these journals often mimic those of respected ones some researchers have been tricked into submitting papers. I was first introduced to the phenomenon of predatory journals a few years ago when a professor of medicine at Stanford told me he had learned of a journal with almost the same name as a prestigious one he edited. His was called Clinical Trials. The other was called Clinical Trials &amp Patenting. There was he and others said a world of difference between the two. Along the way they earned the predatory epithet because they were thought to be taking advantage of innocent scientists. But I learned predation is only a small part of the story. Many probably most academics who publish in these journals know exactly what they are doing. They are padding their r sum s taking advantage of the fact that colleges may not know if a journal is legitimate or not. When the number of publications a person has can determine his or her chances for advancement some decide to take the easy route. So what is a journalist to do We don t want to be tricked by flimsy science. But it turns out to be a lot easier for us to avoid than you might think. Here s the little secret of most science journalism. We usually rely on experts who publish in the most prestigious journals for advice on the legitimacy of papers. I keep an extensive and ever growing list of researchers who are knowledgeable honest and tuned in to the latest research and its implications. If a paper looks interesting I will call on one or two of them and ask Is the work credible Does it advance the field Are there caveats I should know about And when we are looking for major advances or breaking news we rely on papers from those prestigious journals. 