And they accused the university of failing to conduct a top to bottom truly independent investigation settling instead for a review by a legal team that was also trying to protect the school from any damage in the courts. Michigan State portrayed Mr. Fitzgerald as reviewing the Nassar cases even as he was hired to defend the university from lawsuits. Michigan State led the public to believe that there had been an independent investigation Tom Leonard the Republican speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives said on Friday in an interview. And then as we continued to dig into this we found out it was not an independent investigation. It was an internal investigation to shield them from liability. Mr. Fitzgerald said on Friday that his team had never been engaged to produce a public report on the Nassar case. He suggested that his team s role had been misinterpreted by some. In fact the initial contract between Michigan State and Mr. Fitzgerald s firm makes no mention of carrying out an independent investigation or producing any report. We were engaged to provide counsel regarding anticipated litigation and to make sure that any internal reviews did not interfere with the two law enforcement inquiries underway he said referring to criminal investigations that led to Dr. Nassar s guilty plea and sentencing. In the course of gathering facts for the representation the team of attorneys and investigators has conducted approximately one hundred interviews and reviewed a large number of documents. Our work is still ongoing. Under the terms of the law firm s contract the lawyers were to defend the university in civil lawsuits facilitate cooperation with law enforcement and provide counseling on any internal reviews conducted to make sure they are carried out in a manner that will best assist the university s response. Though some women say they told university employees about abuse years ago Mr. Fitzgerald wrote in December that no one who knew Dr. Nassar believed he could be capable of such behavior. It is clear that Nassar fooled everyone around him patients friends colleagues and fellow doctors at MSU Mr. Fitzgerald wrote. Over the months since they hired Mr. Fitzgerald 57 and his team of lawyers Michigan State officials have highlighted his review sometimes noting Mr. Fitzgerald s involvement by name as a sign of the seriousness of their response. Lou Anna K. Simon who resigned as president on Wednesday had portrayed the university s review as a robust and tireless effort that would go on as long as needed. Even as we examine through both criminal investigations and a thorough internal review how something so abhorrent happened here and went on for so long we are taking action she said last April. Dr. Nassar was sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison on Wednesday after days of wrenching testimony from more than 150 women who have accused him of molesting them while he was a doctor for Michigan State and the national gymnastics team. The president stepped down hours later. By week s end Michigan State s athletic director Mark Hollis had also resigned. And two outside agencies the federal education department and the Michigan attorney general had begun what the university s critics hoped would be truly independent investigations into its handling of Dr. Nassar. Bill Schuette the state attorney general said on Saturday that his office was leading a review that would put a bright light in every corner of the university. He promised that the investigation would look from the president s office down for answers about what had happened. Mr. Schuette also said he would ask the university s trustees to have Mr. Fitzgerald turn over all information he has gathered in the course of his work. Their response to this simple request will speak volumes said Mr. Schuette whose investigation involves a special prosecutor and Michigan s statewide police agency. 