Mr. Arconti hopes his story might inspire others to get help. He stopped taking opioids four and a half years ago after several stints in rehabilitation. He says users destined to become addicts generally experiment until they find the drug they want. There is a lot to choose from he said. It should not be a surprise that today s 20 somethings have developed a taste for prescription pill cocktails. Pills are ubiquitous in homes schools and offices. The National Survey on Drug Use and Health in 2015 found that 119 million Americans 12 and older take prescription painkillers tranquilizers sedatives or increasingly among children and young adults stimulants like Adderall. That s nearly half the population. Painkillers in particular have surged. The sale of opioids quadrupled between 1999 and 2010 according to the American Society of Addiction Medicine. By 2012 doctors were writing 259 million opioid prescriptions a year enough for every American adult to have his or her own bottle. The National Institute on Drug Abuse has been encouraging doctors to reduce the number of addictive pills they hand out. Parents are being told to dispose of unused painkillers and drug companies are producing opioids in gel forms so they can t be crushed to snort. Dr. Andrew Kolodny the co director of Opioid Policy Research at Brandeis University s Heller School for Social Policy and Management describes the drug surge as a pill for everything culture which he says has significantly affected how young people feel about prescription pills when they go off to college. Multiple studies have shown that the more available pills are to young people the more likely they are to use them. Today if you grow up in a home where pills are used for every little problem he said you are likely to leave for college with a lot less fear about them. Throughout October a wall of painted sneakers has greeted visitors to the University of North Carolina s student union. It s part of an exhibit entitled Step Into the Soles of Recovery sponsored by the university s four year old recovery program. Alongside the shoes are the personal accounts of the students who decorated them. The laces of one sneaker are wrapped tightly around it. On a piece of paper nearby the student wrote For me addiction always felt suffocating. Frank Allison used heroin and drank heavily until he was 40 now 51 he heads the U. N.C. recovery program. He said the exhibit was a way for some of the four dozen students in his program to talk candidly with the campus about their struggles part of a push to destigmatize addiction and shift attitudes about treatment. Mr. Allison wants to see a move away from a moral model that treats students with substance issues like failures with no self control instead of like people with a chronic illness which is how the American Society of Addiction Medicine defines it. Physicians believe that this viewpoint will help frame the opioid problem for parents and educators and help funnel recovery and prevention funds onto campuses. 