We need to be cautious about broad brush generalizations Alexander McCormick an Indiana University professor who is the director of the National Survey of Student Engagement said to me in an email. But he conceded some fraternities are guilty of encouraging and rewarding sexual conquest that condones or normalizes sexual assault. We profess alarm over how partisan American politics is how fractured our culture has become and how viciously tribal our interactions can be. In light of that we resolve to assemble more heterogeneous campuses. But then we blithely watch and even celebrate the retreat of students into fraternities and sororities which are in many cases largely homogeneous enclaves antithetical to the broadening of perspective and challenging of ingrained assumptions that higher education should be all about. We say that we ll press fraternities to be responsible and they in turn promise to obey. But there s spotty follow through. Penn State in 2004 trumpeted a program called Greek Pride A Return to Glory. Beta Theta Pi where the pledge with the lacerated spleen languished was described as a model fraternity at the school with strict rules governing alcohol consumption. I m sure that s enormous consolation to the grieving parents of that pledge Timothy Piazza. These fraternities have drink danger and debauchery in their blood right alongside secrecy and self protection Lisa Wade an Occidental College sociology professor and the author of American Hookup The New Culture of Sex on Campus wrote in a Time magazine essay that called for an end to fraternities. They cannot reform. Shy of abolishing them colleges could at least stop promoting and even romanticizing them. Hechinger said that campus websites and tours have presented gauzy propaganda extolling Greek life. Why not provide detailed information about individual fraternities disciplinary records instead And why not put more energy into nurturing other groups and living arrangements that might siphon students away from fraternities Wade began her Time essay by observing that 150 years ago fraternities were regarded with enormous suspicion by many college presidents who described them as un American a plague and a force for greater unkindness and ill feeling than almost anything else in college. And college presidents today When I spoke with Wade she told me that they might not be champions of fraternities if they weren t already stuck with them. 