But if ignoring Mr. Spencer s message strikes you as a dereliction of moral duty or otherwise unacceptable then remember that you possess your own First Amendment freedom to speak your mind. You have the right to peacefully protest speech and speakers you abhor and the right to join together with others to celebrate and amplify countervailing viewpoints. Hold a counter rally outside of where Mr. Spencer is speaking to protest him and his ilk. You may be relieved and reassured to see who stands with you as the poet Allen Ginsberg wrote Candor ends paranoia and the numbers you draw to your cause might well send its own message. Counter protesting may prove cathartic an empowering reminder of your own agency and the dynamic potential of political organizing. In our liberal democracy the old civil libertarian saw answer speech with more speech is still good advice. Remember that humor is a powerful tool even perhaps especially when you are confronting issues of grave importance. A cutting joke can deflate bombast educate the public and convince the unaware or unconvinced to stand with you. My boss a comic book nerd is particularly fond of the counterprotests in response to the Westboro Baptist Church demonstration at Comic Con. While Westboro Baptist members displayed messages like God Hates You comic book fans carried signs saying All Glory to the HypnoToad and Magnets How the Do They Work Humorous counter protests undercut the gravitas that groups like the Westboro Baptist Church and speakers like Mr. Spencer are trying to accrue. It may also be useful to hear Mr. Spencer in his own words so as to more effectively combat his ideas. Track his factual assertions and refute them. Catalog his statements and expose them. Ask questions. To paraphrase Justice Louis Brandeis shining sunlight upon Mr. Spencer s beliefs may prove to be powerful disinfectant. Polling shows that his ideas are unpopular remind people why. As the gay rights activist Jonathan Rauch said of one gay rights opponent The more he talks and the more we talk the better we sound. Finally avoid violence. Nothing would make a provocateur like Mr. Spencer happier than a violent attempt at shutting him down. Violence generates still more attention for his cause while sacrificing the moral clarity of peaceful protest. It frightens away potential supporters alienates the public and allows opponents to claim that both sides are at fault. Most dangerously engaging in violence will only guarantee more in return whether from one s political adversaries or the state. As the research of Erica Chenoweth a political scientist at the University of Denver demonstrates engaging in violence has historically empowered fascists who are experts in its use. Richard Spencer will speak at the University of Florida on Thursday. His opponents should too. 