I taught my first class at Columbia University s M. F.A. program this month and even though I ve been teaching college writing since 1993 I initially felt a little intimidated by the school s regal campus. That and regretful. I enjoyed going to college at the University of Michigan an hour from home but my secret humiliation is I was the type of mediocre student I now disdain. As a freshman I cared about my friends my boyfriend and my poetry. Or I cared about what my boyfriend thought of my friends what my friends thought of him and what they thought of my poetry about him. Here s what I wish I d known and done differently A S ARE COOL AND COME WITH PERKS As a student I saw myself as anti establishment and I hated tests I barely maintained a B average. I thought only nerds spent weekends in the library studying. Recently I learned that my niece Dara a sophomore at New York University with a 3. 7 G. P.A. and a boyfriend was offered a week of travel in Buenos Aires as part of her honors seminar. I was retroactively envious to learn that a 3. 5 G. P.A. or higher at many schools qualifies you for free trips scholarships grants awards private parties and top internships. At 20 I was too busy freaking out when said boyfriend disappeared after sleeping with one of said friends . Students certainly don t need to strive obsessively for perfection but I should have prioritized grades not guys. SHOW UP AND SPEAK UP If a class was boring or it snowed I d skip. My rationale was that nobody in the 300 person lecture hall would notice and I could get notes later. Attendance barely counted. When I went I d sit quietly in back. Yet as a teacher I see that the students who come weekly sit in front and ask and answer questions get higher grades and frankly preferential treatment. After 15 weeks I barely know the absentees or anyone Snapchatting the term away on their iPhones. It s not just that these students flush 00 down the toilet every time they miss my class participating can actually lead to payoffs. I reward those who try harder with recommendations references professional contacts and encouragement. CLASS CONNECTIONS CAN LAUNCH YOUR CAREER As an undergrad I rarely visited my professors during office hours. I didn t want to annoy teachers with what I considered triviality. Besides I thought I knew everything already. In graduate school on the other hand I went to the readings of a professor I admired. Eventually I d go to his office just to vent. Once after I complained about a dead end job he recommended me for a position at The New Yorker jump starting my career. 