But free speech advocates have pushed back. Since 2014 at least seven states have instituted campus free speech laws according to the Pew Charitable Trusts reinforcing the general law with penalties for campuses or students who suppress free expression. Just this year lawmakers in 22 states considered similar bills according to the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. Such laws could apply to incidents similar to last spring s cancellation of a speech by the divisive right wing writer Milo Yiannopoulos at the University of California Berkeley. The school canceled the visit after demonstrators set fires to protest his appearance. Mr. Yiannopoulos is expected to return to the campus for a week of free speech rallies in the public plaza this fall. It s unlikely that courts will allow public universities to engage in obvious viewpoint discrimination even when those views are extremely unpopular said Robert Shibley the executive director of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education a free speech group. Speakers also may not be banned or charged more for security based on the expected reaction of their political opponents. Such was the ruling in April when Auburn University attempted to cancel a contract permitting Mr. Spencer s use of a school auditorium for a speech. A federal judge overturned the decision citing the First Amendment and the event took place amid raucous protests resulting in three disorderly conduct arrests. Experience informs strategy said Taffye Benson Clayton the vice president and associate provost for diversity and inclusion at the school reflecting on the lawsuit. It s about engaging with people who think differently in ways that are constructive. If anything Spencer and Charlottesville has really intensified our resolve. Schools are preparing in other ways Dozens of college presidents have sent letters to incoming students to reiterate their commitment to tolerance. The International Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators which has held trainings on preparing for polarizing campus visits will host an October series to examine hate groups. And Teresa A. Sullivan the president of the University of Virginia announced that the school would hire groups to review the campus s safety infrastructure and policy on open flames. She also formed a group charged with evaluating the school s response to the events in Charlottesville following criticism. One early aspect of the response Ms. Sullivan s initial four sentence message posted on the school s website after the Friday night march excluded any mention of racism simply referring to the violence as entirely inconsistent with the university s values. To Dr. Harper the race and education specialist nonspecific language particularly in the midst of crisis is part of the problem. Presidents and senior administrators ought not issue statements that make no mention of race in response to incidents and crises that are undeniably about race he said in an interview. To do so is a leadership failure. 