These publications and commentators aren t embracing the kind of real debate that they pay lip service to on campuses they are spoon feeding screeds to their right wing readers. They are telling them that their most deeply felt beliefs about the world and about their fellow Americans are not only factually correct but also morally righteous. Often that means reinforcing ideas about race and gender shaped by bias more than fact while simultaneously claiming to be the last redoubt of objective journalism. To begin many white conservatives are already largely dismissive of concerns regarding police brutality. According to the General Social Survey conducted by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago 55 percent of white Republicans believe that African Americans just don t have the motivation or willpower to pull themselves up out of poverty. In that same study a quarter of white Republicans said they also viewed African Americans as less intelligent. No wonder that when the former N. F.L. player Burgess Owens told Tucker Carlson on Monday that 70 percent of black men do not stay around their families because of liberalism his audience was primed to believe him even more so because Mr. Owens himself is African American. On issues affecting L. G.B. T. people according to a study conducted by YouGov 21 percent of Americans believe as Mr. Shapiro does that transgender people are mentally ill and 39 percent believe that being transgender is a choice. So for conservative websites to regularly publish stories arguing that to acknowledge transgender people requires denying scientific fact is not audacious. Donald Trump s campaign was built on similarly hollow rhetorical flourishes. He did not tell the truth to the American people He sold the American people falsehoods that millions already believed for example that America s inner cities are hellholes and that black people have nothing to lose and that the biggest danger to America s working class are undocumented immigrants. His message then was not popular because it was controversial or spoke truth to an overwhelming power. It was popular because it didn t. 