While colleges can choose to accommodate displaced students public elementary and high schools will generally be obligated to accept them and some districts are already making preparations. Mr. Scott s office said Puerto Rican children have begun enrolling in Florida and in New York City a spokeswoman for the Department of Education said they have received anecdotal reports of students beginning to trickle in from the island. The New York City schools chancellor sent a letter to principals last week encouraging them to welcome arriving students. The Rev. Samuel Cruz the pastor of Trinity Lutheran Church in Sunset Park Brooklyn and a prominent Puerto Rican activist warned however that the enticement of cheaper tuition could have a damaging effect on the already beleaguered University of Puerto Rico. Before the storm amid the island s fiscal crisis the university had experienced strikes and was facing severe budget cuts. Now with the twin effects of Hurricane Maria and discounted tuition the university system there could suffer a potential brain drain Mr. Cruz said. That s probably going to destroy the university he said in an interview adding that a migration of younger students could also be harmful to the island. I m not going to tell a family that is without power over there not to come he said. But perhaps those of us who are here should focus more on making sure schools are rebuilt through pressure and also through donations so that people don t feel they have to come this way. James B. Milliken chancellor of the CUNY system said CUNY was trying to work with the University of Puerto Rico making tuition assistance available and perhaps even providing temporary placements for faculty but also did not want to exacerbate a flight from the institution. We don t necessarily want to take students on a permanent basis from the University of Puerto Rico we want to be part of their rebuilding Mr. Milliken said. If there are things we can do in the interim period in the rebuilding period while they re having trouble getting back up then we ll do everything we can. 