The new Promise NY scholarship at Le Moyne College in Syracuse offers incoming New York freshmen 0 000 over four years and is part of a strategy of leveraging alumni to help students line up mentors internships and job interviews. Applications are now up 14 percent and deposits are up 20 percent at the school where the total cost is 6 000. The connectivity is extraordinary and can t be monetized said Linda LeMura the school s president. If you re not able to serve the students and give them the attention they need ultimately the economic value of free tuition dissipates. Many colleges caution that Excelsior s impact may not be felt until after final acceptances go out and prospective students decide where to enroll. And some believe that many students especially from middle class families less affected by application fees are simply applying to more schools in general as acceptances seem dicier. Still Ned Jones vice president for enrollment and marketing at Siena College which also launched a new scholarship post Excelsior believes that families are responding to the increased attention. At his school which costs 0 985 for students living on campus visits by students who were offered early admission have increased 25 percent. We like the fact that the conversation the governor started last year about affordability is going on the average family still thinks very positively about Excelsior Mr. Jones said. And you know who the big winners are going to be The students because at the privates or the publics we re all working to enroll that kid. Average fees reported by colleges vary widely. Fees paid by students at Florida International University under an agreement with Wells Fargo averaged about 2 in the last school year according to the school s website. The University of Minnesota s website says that fees averaged about 7 for those using a school sponsored account offered by TCF Bank. Some schools like Stetson University report that their sponsored accounts don t have any fees. Of course many students especially older students or those whose parents introduced them to money management skills early in their teenage years already have an account when they arrive on campus. And in that case the best option may be to keep using that account said Chris Moon consumer banking analyst with financial website ValuePenguin. Using the same bank as your parents makes it easy for them to transfer funds if needed. But if you re going to a college far from home it may be that the selection of A. T.M. s available with your existing account is less convenient. Or you may not have had an account. When opening a new account makes sense it s wise to do some comparison shopping. Don t rule out local credit unions which may offer low cost accounts or online banks which can be a cheap option if you don t mind a lack of branches. Look for an account with low or no monthly maintenance fee and one that offers convenient access to free A. T.M. s Mr. Moon said. Despite the spread of person to person payment options like Venmo he said cash is still preferred in many situations. Big banks like Chase and Wells Fargo typically market student accounts that waive monthly maintenance fees while you re in college. But bear in mind that once you graduate or five years after the account was first opened the bank will typically start charging you the fee unless you meet other requirements to have it waived like a direct deposit. Monthly account fees at big banks range from to 2 ValuePenguin found. Here are some questions and answers about campus bank accounts Where can I get more information about campus banking The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau offers tips on choosing a bank account and managing your money in college. What if I think my college s marketing agreement with a bank is unfair Colleges are supposed to negotiate bank marketing agreements that are in their students best financial interests Mr. Frotman said so students should speak up if they think the terms of an agreement aren t beneficial or if they think the accounts aren t affordable. If they think something is wrong he said they should file a complaint with their school. The best place to lodge a complaint is probably the college s business office. Can campus debit cards charge overdraft fees That depends on the type of agreement the college has with the bank or financial institution managing the card so students should check account details before opening an account. Card accounts that are used to distribute federal student aid can t charge overdraft fees fees typically around 4 charged when you don t have enough cash in your account to cover a purchase. But debit cards that are promoted by the college outside of the student financial aid system may charge overdraft fees. 