Penn State University halted fraternity and sorority parties with alcohol for part of last school year after the death of a 19 year old student in February. And Louisiana State University stopped all Greek life activities for a week in September after the death of a fraternity pledge. The decision at Michigan coming from student leaders and not the school itself seemed to be an effort to show that fraternities were sensitive to criticism that they have become the primary enablers of a party culture that leads to alcohol abuse and sexual assault and to show that they could take steps to reform themselves short of having universities shut them down. Michigan s president Mark Schlissel has been sharply critical of fraternity culture saying in 2015 that though he did not aspire to get rid of fraternities if they did not shape up they may naturally wither and people may want to stop joining them. But a university spokesman Rick Fitzgerald said the administration had not pressured the student group into taking the action. The move was already being felt on Friday afternoon. Instead of scenes of fraternity brothers drinking and playing games on their lawns and porches the only visible activity was found in the yard outside Theta Delta Chi where students were selling doughnuts and apple cider to raise money for the Breast Cancer Research Fund. The suspension was a major topic of conversation at the food court in the basement of the student union where three different groups of young men were overheard complaining about the cancellation of parties this weekend though they declined to speak with a reporter. Henry Flynn a 19 year old sophomore said he rushed a few fraternities last winter before deciding against pledging after his roommate was taken to the hospital with alcohol poisoning after a Greek event. Mr. Flynn recalled one activity where potential pledges moved from room to room participating in different drinking games and another in which they were tested on how they answered women s invasive questions about their sexual histories. Private colleges and universities have increased their endowments spectacularly through aggressive fund raising and these kinds of investment and tax avoidance techniques. Stanford University one of the schools found to use offshoring increased its endowment to 8 billion in 2012 from billion in 1977. Harvard s endowment grew to 2 billion in inflation adjusted dollars from billion during the same period. The problem with enormous endowment growth is that private institutions have not used the resource boom to provide greater benefits to the public. Stanford is a case in point. Despite having increased its endowment tenfold Stanford still only enrolls about 1 600 new freshmen every year approximately the same number of new freshmen it enrolled annually in the 1970s. As a result Stanford now spends about 5 000 each year on every full time student just from its endowment. That s a ninefold increase since the 1970s after adjusting for inflation. Harvard Princeton and Yale all spend even greater sums per student from their endowments. It s true that a number of these wealthy universities have begun to increase the generosity of undergraduate financial aid essentially offering free college room and board to the lowest income students. That s a good thing but most qualified low income students receive zero financial aid from the wealthiest colleges because they are never admitted. According to the Stanford economist Raj Chetty the top 38 private colleges today enroll more students from the top 1 percent of the nation s income spectrum than from the bottom 60 percent. Basically what wealthy colleges end up spending on low income students is a drop in the bucket compared with what they could be doing. America s top public universities on the other hand have substantially increased their enrollments since the 1970s despite shrinking state funding. They also tend to enroll low income students at much higher rates. The University of California Berkeley enrolls more low income students than the entire Ivy League. It would be easier to turn a blind eye to the increasingly lavish exclusiveness of the Ivies if it didn t come at such great public expense. Just three tax breaks related to endowments now come at a cost of nearly 0 billion in reduced federal tax revenue annually. If that 0 billion was captured as federal revenue instead it would provide nearly enough funds to double the federal Pell Grant program for low income students. The answer is not necessarily to tax endowments though they have only been fully tax exempt since 1984. But if wealthy private colleges want their endowments to remain tax exempt they need to start providing much greater public benefits. The most obvious place to begin is a substantial increase in undergraduate enrollment especially of underrepresented students. There has been a marked increase in anxiety about the cost and value of a college degree. Wealthy colleges could help assuage that by enrolling many more students from other walks of life. They can certainly afford to do so. 