In my opinion the second quote that Emily provided to Stanford met all their criteria Professor Dauber said. It was not graphic in any way and emphasized the importance of using her own voice. Professor Dauber said the quotation had been published in widespread news reports and had come in some ways to be emblematic of the entire victim impact statement. Some Stanford students are gathering signatures for a petition asking the university to install the plaque with Ms. Doe s preferred quotation. Last fall the Dumpster area outside the Kappa Alpha fraternity house near where Ms. Doe was assaulted was replaced with a garden two benches and a fountain it can be seen in this photograph from The Stanford Daily in October .Professor Dauber proposed the marker in part to remind students that these events are happening just steps from the back door of their residence she said. It reminds them that two students intervened but that many didn t even notice perhaps prompting them to be more aware of what is happening around them. Two Stanford graduate students who were bicycling saw the assault according to court records. Mr. Turner fled. They tackled him and held him until the police arrived court documents said. Ms. Doe was unconscious at the time she said in court and said she learned what happened from news reports after waking up in the hospital. In court Ms. Doe described her anguish in the widely shared statement. Stanford proposed three alternate quotations from Ms. Doe s statement that were consistent with the purpose of the garden Ms. Lapin said. To the Editor Re Winners and Losers in G. O.P. Tax Overhaul news article Nov. 3 Taxing higher education to pay for other reductions in the House Republicans draft tax reform bill with the potential to negatively affect benefits like student and family education credits and deductions as well as college endowments is bad public policy. Higher education attainment is more important than ever to our economy and to individuals. The colleges and universities affected would end up with fewer resources to spend on the need based financial aid that helps low and middle income Americans go to and finish college. Many of the institutions targeted already spend significant amounts on need based aid and have committed to do even more through programs like the American Talent Initiative. We cannot afford to slow this momentum. These universities would also have fewer resources to spend on cutting edge research that fuels innovation and discovery. Just consider the effect of this legislation on America s long term economic growth and competitiveness. Who will benefit by taking resources away from higher education these high return investments in American prosperity and transferring them to tax cuts Not the majority of the American people. CATHARINE BOND HILLNEW YORKThe writer president emerita of Vassar College is the managing director of Ithaka S R a strategy and research group for education and the arts. 