And while the problem is global each new scandal here just this week a young woman accused a Greens party member of date rape has led to more women speaking out as well as an angry response from what many Australians consider a core element of this country s identity its hypermasculine culture. It is standard in fact that when a student exposes sexism or misogyny in their own university they are almost always met with horrendous backlash and ostracism including reprisals said Nina Funnell a victims advocate and writer. That s incredibly common in Australia. Australian university officials especially at the two elite universities facing the most criticism Australian National and Sydney insist that they are tackling the problem head on. Sydney University recently set up a rape hotline and improved training for staff said Tyrone Carlin deputy vice chancellor. ANU introduced a sexual consent training course for all first year students this year said Richard Baker pro vice chancellor of the university. In Australia many students say that requests for similar policies have been thwarted or delayed even as reports of sexual assault reached a six year high last year. At ANU and Sydney the problems have long been obvious. Last year in an open letter to Sydney University officials women who served in student government wrote For an entire decade we have been raising the issue of sexual assault and harassment on campus with the administration. For an entire decade we have been met with resistance to change. At Sydney University for example the Safer Communities Working Group set up more than a year ago in part to deal with sexual assault is seen by some students as window dressing. I was pretty hopeful maybe na vely coming into it thinking we could bring students concerns there and they would be addressed said Anna Hush 23 a philosophy student who was part of the group last year. But it was much more them telling us what they were doing rather than us contributing to decisions being made. 