In March four male students there were caught chanting graphic sexual rhymes about nailing women. In both cases the students were disciplined and some suspended. Burton and Garran Hall has also officially prohibited the encircling of women when Eagle Rock is played. Jane O Dwyer an Australian National spokeswoman said the university was working to address a nationwide problem. It s a cultural issue in Australia she said. We have a hypermasculine society. That culture advocates say means serious cases still go unpunished. We all know women who have been raped Ms. Jones said. What ends up usually happening to the perpetrator is they just either do nothing or move them to another college. It reminds me of the way the Catholic Church moved the priests along. The End Rape on Campus report based on public records at 27 of the country s universities found that 575 complaints of sexual harassment and sexual assault made to Australian universities in the last five years resulted in only six expulsions. Australian National officials say they are still trying to improve their response to the problem. The university is reviewing all of its policies and procedures to see if we can further enhance their transparency and fairness Professor Baker said. But the universities have a long way to go if they want to cleanse the toxic atmosphere that drove a Sydney University student to the brink last fall. Dr. Chu later deleted her Yelp account and sent an email to the residential college community apologizing the News said. I have learned a lot this semester about the power of words and about the accountability that we owe one another Dr. Chu wrote according to the newspaper. My remarks were wrong. There are no two ways about it. Not only were they insensitive in matters related to class and race they demean the values to which I hold myself and which I offer as a member of this community it said. Dr. Chu was placed on leave last month. On Tuesday the head of Pierson College s administrative office Stephen Davis said in an email to students that Dr. Chu was no longer its dean. I write to let you know Dean Chu has left her position at Pierson College and wishes the best to the students Dr. Davis said according to a copy of the message obtained on Wednesday. As a result I am initiating the process of the search for a new dean who will be in place before the start of the fall term. 