More and more the presidents are having to deal with change on campus and off. Pressures to transform colleges and universities have grown making the job of being president harder the report says. Higher education has reached an inflection point as the student body diversifies enrollments plateau funding volatility grows accountability and political climates become more intense and tumultuous. In the New York area the top ranks in academia have been reshuffled recently with a host of institutions turning to new presidents including New York University where Andrew Hamilton took over in 2016 Pace University the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Vassar College and Barnard College. The State University of New York named a new chancellor in April. The City College of New York whose president resigned in October amid a scandal is still searching for a replacement. To complete the survey the council solicited input from more than 3 600 presidents last year. More than 1 500 responded to a 69 question survey representing 60 percent of universities granting doctorates or master s degrees. The survey also sought data from for profit institutions but only 31 about 6 percent replied. Over all the study found that 30 percent of college presidents were women and 17 percent were members of racial or ethnic minorities a slight increase from recent surveys. One group that slipped however was Hispanics and especially Hispanic women while 6. 7 percent of college presidents identified as Hispanic women in 2006 the figure in 2016 was 2. 9 percent. MEXICO CITY Exams are over and classrooms have gone dark as summer comes to the National Autonomous University of Mexico the pride of the country s public education system. But as students and professors melt away there remains one strange and lively corner of the university s main campus where nothing much will change where tomorrow will be a lot like yesterday and next month a lot like this one. Since 2000 the university s Justo Sierra Auditorium has been commandeered by political protesters making it one of the longest running occupations of a university building in history and putting more famous college takeovers to shame. The student occupation at Columbia University in 1968 for instance lasted only about a week. At the National Autonomous University of Mexico known by its Spanish initials UNAM the occupation has stretched for nearly 17 years and shows no sign of flagging. 