Around the auditorium a kind of zone of tolerance has been created said Gabriel Ramos Garc a a professor and administrator in the School of Philosophy and Literature. Now anybody can come and do what they feel like with the excuse that they are in autonomous territory. Nallely P rez 23 who is completing her undergraduate studies in the School of Philosophy and Literature said the occupiers had sullied the reputation of her department. They give the students of the school a bad image she said. They occupy the space. Over the years faculty members and students have organized petitions meetings and protests to pressure an end to the takeover. UNAM s administration seems to have frozen somewhere between its stated desire to regain possession of the auditorium and its hesitance to call in the police. The idea of government security personnel on public university campuses is anathema throughout Latin America. UNAM faculty members and students said an attempt to retake the auditorium by force would most likely provoke wider resistance and social upheaval leaving negotiation the only widely accepted path to a resolution. The durability of the occupation and the lack of visible effort by the administration to resolve it has dismayed many in the UNAM community. Dr. Ordorika urged the university s leadership to take action on the issue. Do politics people of the rector s office he said. Solve it Get them out He added It s my auditorium One undergraduate student a close ally of the occupation praised the occupiers for creating what he said was a horizontal organization no hierarchy no leaders no political parties. He suggested there was little chance that the occupiers might be willing to broker some sort of accord with UNAM to end the occupation. Should an outside force begin an assault on the building he warned the occupiers had a defense plan ready. And he would be alongside them he vowed fighting if necessary to the death. SASKATOON Saskatchewan On a recent brilliant morning the University of Saskatchewan transformed its college green into a powwow arena with white canvas tepees drum circles and lines of young women braiding their hair and affixing eagle plumes in preparation for graduation festivities. The university s founders could hardly have imagined such a sight. The college was built in the last century modeled on the great American and British universities. It was imagined as a grand preserve of Western thought for the children of Canadian settlers then flooding into the country s youngest province in the prairies. Indigenous students were not banned but they were not welcomed either. Now all that has changed. The powwow graduation in May was one example of how universities across Canada are indigenizing a new elastic term that means everything from drawing more aboriginal students and faculty members onto campuses built largely for white settlers to infusing those stodgy Western institutions with aboriginal belief systems and traditional knowledge. While sporadic efforts on many campuses took root decades ago a true campaign was set off by the Canadian commission that looked into residential schools and their abuses against indigenous children. 