If you agree that digital literacy alone would not have prevented those students from posting what they did what do you think might have helped those students and what might help them in the future Samuel DuBois Cook a lifelong educator who was widely saluted as the first tenure track black professor appointed by a predominantly white university in the South since Reconstruction died on May 29 at his home in Atlanta. A boyhood friend of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. he was 88. His death was announced by Duke University where he taught political science from 1966 to 1974 before serving 22 years as president of Dillard University a historically black institution in New Orleans. No cause of death was given. If there were any doubts about how the first full time black professor would fare at a Southern university whose student body had only just been integrated they were quickly dispelled. By Dr. Cook s second year of teaching at Duke in Durham N. C. his students presented him with their outstanding professor award. In 1973 he also became the first black president of the Southern Political Science Association. President Jimmy Carter later named him to the National Council on the Humanities. Dr. Cook was born on Nov. 21 1928 in Griffin Ga. a city in metropolitan Atlanta. His middle name was a tribute to Charles DuBois Hubert a former president of the historically black Morehouse College in Atlanta. His father the Rev. Marcus Emanuel Cook was a Baptist minister. His mother was the former Mary Beatrice Daniel. The summer after high school Samuel Cook and his friend Martin Luther King Jr. were sent by their fathers both preachers to work in Connecticut s tobacco fields to earn money for college. That fall as precocious 15 year old freshmen they entered Morehouse under an early admissions program aimed at filling classrooms emptied by students drafted for World War II. Dr. Cook is survived by his wife the former Sylvia Fields their children Samuel Jr. and Karen J. Cook and two grandchildren. In 1948 he graduated with a bachelor s degree in history from Morehouse where he was student body president and founded the campus chapter of the N. A.A. C.P. He earned a master s in political science and a doctorate from Ohio State University. He taught at Southern University in Atlanta University the University of Illinois and the University of California Los Angeles before Duke hired him as an associate professor of political science. His legacy there includes the Samuel DuBois Cook Center on Social Equity. 