Donations to City College s main fund raising arm the 21st Century Foundation are on track to be significantly lower this year according to budget documents reflecting unease among alumni and potential donors. The new guidelines were still being ironed out and were subject to last minute changes. They are part of a package of administrative reforms to be voted on by CUNY s trustees most of whom have been appointed by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo at their June 26 meeting the last one before the next academic year. When asked about the guidelines James B. Milliken CUNY s chancellor confirmed that they were intended to ensure transparency and accountability to give people confidence in the administration and governance of this university. And while he said that the guidelines were part of a larger plan that we ve talked about how to improve over all the operations of CUNY he also noted that outside investigations one by the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York and the other by the New York State inspector general had identified and raised important issues. We want an environment that contributes to successful fund raising and stewardship and that certainly includes an assurance to donors that their dollars are being invested wisely he said. To the extent that it s consistent with what the I. G. has identified and others all the better. The overall impact of the new rules would be to centralize oversight of the foundations. They would have to open their records to CUNY and would be subject to periodic audits by the university. Each foundation must enter into a new memo of understanding which will outline the purpose of the fund its personnel and the expectations of how it will operate. The university will also keep closer track of whether funds are being used as donors intended them. Every foundation must accept and follow these guidelines to ensure that it operates in a prudent lawful manner the draft reads. And one provision which compels the foundations to open up their donor and alumni databases seems specifically targeted at the City College Fund which is also the subject of the federal investigation. The debate over the future of CUNY comes at a delicate time for the university. On the one hand it has increasingly garnered recognition as a premier engine of upward mobility. On the other states including New York have been cutting spending on public higher education while tuition has been climbing and at CUNY the lack of funding has contributed to deteriorating facilities and overcrowded classrooms. 