The frustrations at CUNY have been compounded by the perception that top administrators have been enriching themselves at the expense of a predominantly poor and minority student body more than half of whom report family incomes of less than 0 000. Mr. Cuomo has also been paying closer attention to CUNY which receives the bulk of its funding from the state and higher education in general as evidenced by his new Excelsior scholarship which will pay tuition for New York residents who meet certain income guidelines and other criteria at the state s two and four year colleges. Applications for the Excelsior program were released Wednesday. After Dr. Coico s resignation in October William C. Thompson Jr. the chairman of CUNY s Board of Trustees and a former New York City comptroller asked for a thorough investigation of all of the college foundations alumni associations or other affiliated entities. Not long afterward Catherine Leahy Scott the New York State inspector general criticized the university s financial practices as ripe for abuse in an unusual interim report prompting Mr. Cuomo to demand sweeping changes. Mr. Cuomo later proposed taking 10 percent of the foundations annual revenue to fund tuition assistance programs a total of 5 million. But foundation leaders argued that such tithing as they called it would hamper fund raising and the proposal did not survive. When asked about the new proposal Max Berger chairman of the Baruch College Fund one of CUNY s largest foundations struck a diplomatic tone. We are in the process of discussing with CUNY a revision to the foundation guidelines and a memo of understanding he said. Everybody recognizes that the foundations are extraordinarily important to the CUNY system and the colleges they support and we believe that the foundations are operated with the highest level of responsibility and transparency. We re just trying to work through our issues so we can come to a place where everyone is satisfied. Researchers can solve that problem by randomly assigning some students to use laptops. With that approach the students who use laptops are comparable in all other ways to those who don t. In a series of experiments at Princeton University and the University of California Los Angeles students were randomly assigned either laptops or pen and paper for note taking at a lecture. Those who had used laptops had substantially worse understanding of the lecture as measured by a standardized test than those who did not. The researchers hypothesized that because students can type faster than they can write the lecturer s words flowed right to the students typing fingers without stopping in their brains for substantive processing. Students writing by hand had to process and condense the spoken material simply to enable their pens to keep up with the lecture. Indeed the notes of the laptop users more closely resembled transcripts than lecture summaries. The handwritten versions were more succinct but included the salient issues discussed in the lecture. Even so it may seem heavy handed to ban electronics in the classroom. Most college students are legal adults who can serve in the armed forces vote and own property. Why shouldn t they decide themselves whether to use a laptop The strongest argument against allowing that choice is that one student s use of a laptop harms the learning of students around them. In a series of lab experiments researchers at York University and McMaster University in Canada tested the effect of laptops on students who weren t using them. Some students were told to perform small tasks on their laptops unrelated to the lecture like looking up movie times. As expected these students retained less of the lecture material. But what is really interesting is that the learning of students seated near the laptop users was also negatively affected. 