Harvard has rescinded acceptance offers to at least 10 incoming freshmen who posted offensive jokes about school shootings the Holocaust bestiality and the death of children and minorities among other obscene topics to a private Facebook group. The jokes were posted in the form of memes those photographs or images overlaid with captions that you see everywhere on the internet. That young people post offensive memes on Facebook is not news. What s unique about this situation is that Harvard found out about incoming students who were doing so and retracted their admission sending a strong message that this kind of behavior is unacceptable. One of the jokes referred to the hypothetical hanging of a Mexican kid in the school bathroom as pi ata time. Another an image of a Pok mon lying in bed with an erection was captioned When you re tryna sleep but your neighbor is beating his kids. Most of the memes could not be printed or explained in this newspaper. This situation is a stark reminder of our collective failing to teach the first generation of digital natives those who were born and raised on high speed internet that there are real life consequences for virtual actions. I am of the bridge generation that remembers life before social media permeated everything but cannot imagine life without it now. I was a sophomore at the University of Illinois in 2004 the year TheFacebook launched and was made available to college students who went to Ivy League and Big 10 schools. I signed up for the new social network and never looked back except shadily at BlackPlanet or Myspace. When I graduated from college in 2006 I went into marketing and ended up introducing the organizations I worked for to social media. It turned out these platforms we kids were all loitering on could be used for business It was perfect for my next move. I got a job as a marketing coordinator at a nonprofit that taught other nonprofits how to tell their stories through social media and on the web. My position expanded I started coaching and teaching social media strategy. A year into my job I found out from my boss how he d decided to hire me for the role. He was down to two candidates who were equally qualified but I had the cleaner online reputation meaning that nothing weird came up when he Googled my name. Today s young uns would we call them Generation Z have more than just a few years of a digital trail. They were born into the technology age and all they know is fast internet. This means of course that they will never know the trials and tribulations of leaving your computer on overnight so you could download a single song from Kazaa. They probably don t even know what Kazaa is. But they are in the most danger in terms of their digital reputations They can be made or broken from the permanent digital record of actions they don t even fully understand. In my workshops for young adults the most important thing I emphasize is that anything posted online no matter how private they think it is is permanent. 