Then I tell them how they can avoid pitfalls and big mistakes while still staying true to themselves. I am in a great position to do that as I make my living as a cultural critic who doesn t shy away from speaking up and out. You do not have to be an incredibly sanitized or boring version of yourself online I tell them. You can still show the most colorful funny side of who you are without embarrassing your family s good name. But if you wouldn t want something you posted to end up on a jumbotron in Times Square DO NOT POST IT. With that advice provocative memes and that act of keyboard courage it takes to post them become a little less attractive. Digital literacy couldn t have helped kids who thought referring to a Mexican child as pi ata was funny that s a much deeper issue that falls on the shoulders of their families and communities. Jokes like the ones that were shared in the private group of would be Harvard students went well beyond provocative and well into the territory of hate speech. But for your average teen a quick class in the rules of online conduct could mean the difference between a youthful indiscretion kept private and a life derailed by immaturity that became public. Digital media literacy is just as important as financial literacy now Who we appear to be online can significantly impact earning power. This isn t just a lesson for young adults. Adults are certainly making these same mistakes. But if we can teach high school and college students these lessons now we can better prevent them from stumbling. And prevention is always better than treatment. Varsha Srivastava 20 appeared to have the perfect college experience at Boston University. She was in the College of Communication worked on a campus podcast was a swim instructor and played club water polo. But emotionally she was falling apart. Her story has been edited and condensed. I grew up in the Silicon Valley where the norm is that you excel in academics. A lot of my friends were going to school at the Universities of California but I didn t get into the ones I wanted or they didn t have what I wanted. B.U. is a great school but I wasn t very happy there. My parents were paying too much for school and for me to fly across the country. I never had problems making friends but I wasn t committed at B. U.But I felt this pressure to have a great freshman year. I use social media a lot and all my friends looked like they were having a great time. I d go to holiday parties and when I was asked about Boston University the only honest thing I could say is that it was cold. I didn t realize other students were having similar problems. 