The second semester I said I d get myself together but it just got worse. I was so anxious about my grades. Because I was used to being a high performing student I couldn t take small steps. I needed to jump in and I needed to get an A. Every assignment and every class became a huge project that would stress me out so much that I would avoid it because I didn t know how to cope with it. I recognize this now but at the time I had no idea what was going on. I scheduled an appointment with behavioral medicine at student health services. I was not sleeping. I was pulling all nighters three times a week the whole semester. I was falling apart. I went to the appointment and it was the first time I told someone. The person referred me off campus to a psychiatrist. I had never met with a psychiatrist never met with a therapist before. It didn t really work out because I didn t feel comfortable talking to the psychiatrist. I would pretend I was getting better. Over the summer I didn t tell anyone not my friends or parents. I felt I was not only lying about my experiences but who I was as a person. My sophomore year I had no self confidence and I had no way to advocate for myself because I was so ashamed of everything. I would enthusiastically sign up for classes and be excited about the content and then when I started to slip I felt like I was not worthy. I m personable and get along then I d hit a bump and I would see my professors disappointment and confusion. At the end of my sophomore year I went home. And after I got the worst grades I ever got my mom saw me crying in the bedroom and I told her. She wanted me to see a therapist. I fought it for a long time I think partly because it was coming from my mom. I met with a therapist all summer but in the fall semester things were not noticeably better. Then I met with my academic adviser and I was telling her how difficult things were and she referred me to B. U. s Center for Psychiatric Rehabilitation and I met with Courtney. Courtney Joly Lowdermilk is a college coach at the center and manages Niteo which she says means thrive in Latin. Niteo is a one semester program that offers resilience wellness and academic skills classes as well as coaching to students from all over the county on leave for mental health reasons. It costs 500 per semester and some scholarships are available. I told her all about my experiences. I didn t even know what self advocacy was she helped me write emails to professors asking how I could improve. She helped me organize my work. Ms. Joly Lowdermilk said Varsha s situation was not unusual She is a very bright very high achieving student overwhelmed by responsibilities. She had very high expectations of herself. She needed to take some things off her plate and to learn self advocacy to let people know when she was struggling. Fall semester I was on probation because of my grades it killed me. And at the end of fall semester I was suspended for a year. Coming from a family where education and excelling at school is so important it was awful. It was the first time. I talked with my parents. They didn t want me to go back to Boston University but Courtney spoke to them about the Niteo program. Courtney checks with me when I have depressive bouts. I definitely still feel like I did sometimes but things have improved a lot antidepressants have helped but being able to talk about it was the most healing aspect. Not doing well was something I thought I would die with. Varsha received A s in the two classes she took spring semester at Bunker Hill Community College in Boston while also enrolled in Niteo. She has since learned that she won her appeal of her suspension and will return to Boston University full time in the fall. 