 ‘It Wasn’t Something I Wanted to Do’Mason Saxton, 18, <uname>Preston High School, Idaho</uname>.Mason says his counselors at school were leery of his decision to work for his family’s auto business. His parents, Doug and Camille Saxton, were not. Seated in their living room, their hangar-size garage looming over the backyard, Mason’s father told this story: He and Mason’s older brother were driving past a nearby college when the brother piped up, “Look at all those people wasting their money.”Mason: My dad didn’t go to college. My brother didn’t go to college. Seeing how successful they are in life, I knew I didn’t need to go to college to make a living. I knew it wasn’t something I wanted to do. College has gotten so expensive. They leave with so much debt, and walk away with an 1-an-hour job.
 ‘Everyone’s Got Their Own Route’Ty Harrington, 17, <uname>Hillcrest High School, Idaho Falls</uname>. Ty found his niche in drama and dreamed of studying theater at a 2,000-a-year private college in Salt Lake City. But money problems led him to put off that idea.Now I’m taking it all back. It might be a year before I go, it might be 20 years. I might not go. It’s just not right for me at the moment.It was a lot of anxiety about the money. My father used to work as a D.J. for a local radio station, but he got a couple brain tumors. They let him go, and he hasn’t been able to get a job ever since. My mom is working three jobs just to support us.I’m in the midst of looking for a job, but I’ve got some good prospects. There’s a middle school that’s looking for a manager for their auditorium in town. There’s a lot of auditoriums around that need tech workers. I’m going to try and find some paid acting gigs.The theater jobs didn’t pan out, so he is still looking. School counselors and college advisers caution against the “year off” plan to work and save for college rather than take on big loans. A 2014 survey by the College Board and National Journal backs them up: It found that students who went straight to college were more than three times as likely to have earned a degree as those who went to work first.
