 ‘I Really Don’t Like Thinking About the Future’Asiah Harris, 18, <uname>Northrop High School, Fort Wayne, Ind</uname>.Her day job is feeding residents at a retirement center and nursing home:  an hour. Her night job is working the go-kart track at the Putt-Putt Fun Center: .50 an hour. Her weekend job is stocking refrigerators at a pair of convenience stores: 2 an hour. I’m not 100 percent sure what I want to do yet. I do know that I don’t really want to go to college right away. That’s a for-sure. As soon as I was able to get a job, I got one. I’m trying to save my money so I can move out and get my own car.For people a few years older than Asiah, there is a nearly 0,000 annual pay gap between those with a high school diploma (0,500 median earnings) and those with a bachelor’s degree (0,000 median), government data shows. My mom isn’t really so supportive about my not wanting to go to college. But it’s my choice and my life. College isn’t something to play around with. You don’t go just to go.I feel really exhausted, and it kind of sucks because I know that I have to keep on doing this, and I’m so young. My mom tells me all the time, “You know, Asi, you shouldn’t feel this tired, you shouldn’t this or that.” I’m like, “Mom, I work.” Two to three jobs. I go to school and then I have night school. I don’t know. I’m trying to figure it out.
  ‘I’m Ready to Jump Out There’Shanel Schrader, 18, <uname>Northrop High School, Fort Wayne</uname>, Ind. I’ll be the only child in my family to graduate. My dad finished high school, but my mom dropped out because she was pregnant with my brother. My brother never finished. I’m beyond excited to actually walk across the stage and get my diploma. I feel like I made my mom proud by doing what she never got to do. Everybody, all my family, gets to see me walk where they didn’t get to see others.Despite gender-equality laws like Title IX, career and technical education programs across the country are still divided along traditional lines, experts say: Boys dominate higher-paying fields like welding, electronics, pipe fitting and plumbing. Girls make up most of the students in lower-paying fields like cosmetology and medical assistance. Shanel said she had loved hair and makeup since she was young, and spent 1,500 hours working for her cosmetology license at a career training center that draws students from across Fort Wayne. She has interviewed with a salon inside the Walmart where she earns 0 an hour. It’s only minimum wage. You keep earning your raises. I needed a job to get money for car insurance and some of my bills: gym memberships, the orthodontist. Ten years down the line, I could see myself opening my own shop or traveling, and doing what I love. I’m ready to jump out there and start doing my career.
