 After I published an essay on Medium to explain the protesters’ side of the story, my full name, phone number and home address were posted online, and I was bombarded with hate-filled messages. I found my name and personal information on message boards, along with rape threats and discussions about which racial slur fit me best (the consensus was the N-word). It took three days to get my personal information taken down, and for others it took longer.In the past few weeks, the school has been shut down four times because of threats, including one from an anonymous caller who said, “I’m on my way to <uname>Evergreen University</uname> now with a .44 Magnum. I am gonna execute as many people on that campus as I can get a hold of.”Downtown Olympia has seen a sudden influx of visitors wearing Nazi and white supremacist regalia. Campus buildings have been scrawled with graffiti that says, “Diversity Equals White Genocide” and “No Safe Space For Commies.” Swastikas and racial slurs have been chalked and painted on <uname>Evergreen</uname> property.Yesterday, the campus was mostly shut down after 3 p.m. because Patriot Prayer, a right-leaning protest group that espouses a love for guns and President Trump and a hatred for so-called snowflakes, descended on the campus for a “free speech” rally. Patriot Prayer was recently in the news for marching in Portland, Ore., after the killing of two people by a white supremacist who was aligned with the group, even though the mayor of Portland pleaded with them to postpone their event.While recent events may have brought negative attention to my school, I am proud of students here who found a way to create change. In the movies, protests always look heroic, but they tend to be messy in real life. Weren’t the protests of the 1960s unpopular and messy sometimes, too?After a series of petitions and protests by students, George Bridges, the president of <uname>Evergreen</uname>, agreed to require bias training for the staff and faculty and create better protections for undocumented students. It wasn’t everything the students had asked for, but it was a step in the right direction.Bret Weinstein’s interview with Tucker Carlson aired on the same day students met with President Bridges. We were surprised to hear Mr. Weinstein’s claims, which seemed far removed from what we had witnessed, and saddened to see how almost overnight his version of events became the entire narrative.Mr. Weinstein’s story about <uname>Evergreen</uname>’s regressive campus culture fit neatly into many misconceptions about the “new left,” so it seemed to go unquestioned. However, for many students, staff and faculty at <uname>Evergreen</uname>, the harassment that came after the negative coverage of the protesters was a shocking and bitter twist. It is not lost on us that students of color are the ones who have been disproportionately targeted.
 Drew Gilpin Faust, the first woman to be <uname>Harvard</uname>’s president, announced on Wednesday that she would step down next year after 11 years of service, a period in which she oversaw ambitious fund-raising, expansion of academic programs and increases in student and faculty diversity.Dr. Faust, a well-liked historian known for her scholarship on the American South, was appointed in 2007 after a turbulent period in which her predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, an economist and former Treasury secretary, alienated significant portions of the faculty.The gracious Dr. Faust, in some ways an unlikely choice to lead the university because she did not attend <uname>Harvard</uname>, was viewed as the antidote to Dr. Summers’s pugnacious style. Moreover, the selection of a woman — after Dr. Summers’s controversial suggestion that women might lack an aptitude for science and math — appeared to usher in a new era.Indeed, Dr. Faust is credited with increasing the university’s ethnic and economic diversity, partly by expanding its financial aid program.
