Nasty withdrawal symptoms make stopping doubly hard. She spent four and a half months in a New Jersey rehabilitation center before joining the Haven, first as a resident, now as a frequent visitor. She has been clean for a year and a half. The opioid epidemic has ravaged communities around the nation — deaths from overdoses now outnumber deaths from car crashes — prompting President Trump to establish a federal task force and, on Oct. 26, to declare a public health emergency, allowing some grant money to be released to combat the problem and some laws and regulations to be eased. Already on campuses, recovery programs are expanding and multiplying, populated by students who have struggled with dependence on Percocet (oxycodone) and Vicodin (hydrocodone), as well as those who have moved on to fentanyl and heroin, which are far cheaper on the street than prescription pills. Little data exist on the extent of the problem among college students. But according to a 2016 national survey of them by the <uname>University of Michigan</uname>, 7 percent of 870 respondents said they had misused opioid painkillers; 4 percent had done so in the previous year. For 19- to 22-year-olds who hadn’t gone to college or had dropped out, which is common when struggling with addiction, close to 13 percent said they had misused painkillers. Sean Esteban McCabe, a <uname>Michigan</uname> researcher who has studied student addiction for close to 20 years, said misuse is most prevalent on competitive campuses, where students are more affluent and have better access to prescribed pills. Studies have indicated that athletes in high-contact sports like ice hockey and wrestling, who are often prescribed painkillers, are particularly vulnerable. Campus users, Dr. McCabe said, tend to be white, live in fraternity or sorority houses, and have lower grade-point averages. Thanks to better prevention education and treatment, heroin use among college students has flattened out, and abuse of painkillers seems to be dropping. A decade ago, 9 percent in the <uname>Michigan</uname> survey said they had misused within the previous year. This news has not heartened advocates, though, largely because the number of deaths has actually risen. Public health officials blame a black market flooded with more dangerous options like fentanyl, a highly addictive synthetic that is 100 times more potent than morphine. It is the opioid that killed Prince. Opioid-related deaths among Americans age 24 and under almost doubled from 2005 to 2015, when 3,165 were reported, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The number of opioid-related emergency room visits by young people also nearly doubled over five years, from 52 per 100,000 patients to 97 in 2014, according to the United States Department of Health and Human Services.