In many cases, the athletes’ abuse took the form of the treatment Dr. Nassar used for so many ailments: a pelvic massage in which he inserted his fingers into his patients. Medical professionals who perform a similar procedure are supposed to use a glove or lubricant; someone else is supposed to be present observing; and the doctor is supposed to explain the procedure in detail before he begins. According to court testimony, Dr. Nassar often followed none of those protocols. The <uname>Michigan State</uname> athletes said they assumed their university — a Big Ten member that spent more than 20 million on its 23 varsity teams last year, per USA Today’s database — was providing strict oversight of their care and the people who conducted it. On many afternoons at <uname>Michigan State</uname>’s Jenison Field House, several athletes — volleyball players, rowers, runners and others, male and female — lined up like theatergoers at a box office, waiting for a daily window of medical office hours for athletes to open at 5 p. m. Sometimes the doctor on duty was Nassar, who was the physician for the women’s gymnastics and rowing teams, and who was known widely for his unorthodox methods.“I remember it as being common knowledge — everybody knew if you went to him, you got weird treatment,” said Stein, who found herself before Dr. Nassar one afternoon simply because he happened to be on call when she sought medical care.
 “I trusted in the fact that I was at a top program, a top Division I school,” added Cate Hannum, a rower who said Dr. Nassar regularly massaged her breasts under the pretext of medical treatment during some of her years at <uname>Michigan State</uname>. “Why wouldn’t they have the best of the best?”Several athletes said they observed ways in which Dr. Nassar made students reliant upon him. Charla Burill, a runner, described his diagnosis of a fracture in her sitting bones as a “godsend” after other doctors failed to find what was causing her pain. Lindsey Lemke — a gymnast who said Dr. Nassar abused her starting in junior high school and, after she became a <uname>Michigan State</uname> athlete, on one occasion administered acupuncture in her pubic area — recalled his saying, “I do this to Olympians, to a lot of people.”His reputation as doctor to the national gymnastics team preceded him.“Even my parents, they never did anything about it,” said Christie Achenbach, a runner who said she discussed Dr. Nassar’s vaginal procedure with her parents and her coach at <uname>Michigan State</uname>. “You know, ‘He’s a doctor’ — not just a doctor, the Olympic gymnast doctor.”When Achenbach told her teammates, she said, “they didn’t think it was out of the ordinary, and I thought maybe it was me overreacting.”