Mumps is transmitted by droplets of saliva or mucus. It can be spread by coughing and sneezing, but also by sharing cups and the close contact of living and eating and exercising together. Many of the recent outbreaks occurred in college dorms or among athletic teams, as happened with the <uname>Syracuse University</uname> men’s and women’s lacrosse teams last month. And “we are seeing it in other close-knit communities that tend to live closely together with strong social or cultural interactions,” Dr. Routh said, including religious groups. Mumps vaccine is now combined with measles and rubella vaccine in the M. M.R., given at ages 1 and 4. But the immunity wanes over time in some people, and with close contact, there can be sufficient exposure to sufficient quantities of virus to overcome the vaccines’ protection. Dr. Patricia Quinlisk, the medical director and state epidemiologist for the Iowa Department of Public Health, dealt with an outbreak at the <uname>University of Iowa</uname> and surrounding area in 2015 to 2016 of more than 450 cases of mumps. The students involved had all had their childhood M. M.R. shots, she said, as required by the university, and the decision was made to hold a series of clinics offering a third dose of vaccine. In an article in September in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Quinlisk and her colleagues traced the importance of waning immunity, and the effectiveness of that third M. M.R. shot in the <uname>Iowa</uname> outbreak.“Should this situation occur again, we would give a third dose,” Dr. Quinlisk said. “In our outbreak it did substantially decrease the risk of other students getting mumps, and was instrumental in stopping the outbreak.”
 Of course, waning immunity can be a problem after college as well. Dr. Alan Lucerna, the program director for combined emergency and internal medicine at <uname>Rowan School of Osteopathic Medicine</uname> in New Jersey, reported in February 2017 on a case of mumps in a fully immunized adult, in an article titled “Still a pain in the neck after all this time.”“A good number of patients who come to the E. R. and are subsequently diagnosed with mumps are vaccinated and come in thinking it was just a lymph node swelling,” Dr. Lucerna said. Adults who develop swelling at the angle of the jaw together with flulike symptoms should think about mumps, he said. “We probably underdiagnose it.”Should parents worry about sending their children off to college with their two childhood doses of mumps vaccine? “No, we do know that two doses of vaccine is protective,” Dr. Routh said. The current recommendation is that a third dose, while safe, is only warranted for people felt to be at high risk by public health workers, like the <uname>Iowa</uname> students in the setting of an outbreak. The two childhood doses of M. M.R. do protect most people against getting mumps, and they also, of course protect against measles, a much more serious disease, not to mention rubella.“We’ve heard some people say this proves the vaccine’s not working, but the vaccine probably prevented a lot more students from getting ill,” Dr. Quinlisk said. Immunity does not wane in everyone, so many people who are exposed don’t get sick. “We certainly commend the <uname>University of Iowa</uname> for having a mandatory vaccine policy which kept it from being worse and prevented complications.”