“People don’t misuse substances because they are bad people,” he said. “I wasn’t a bad person. I was a sick person. Having a substance use disorder is like having diabetes or a heart condition.”Mr. Arconti, now 26 and pursuing a degree in Asian studies, says that Mr. Allison’s vision is reflected in the recovery community. The group, mostly male, consists of former frat boys, rock climbers and hip-hop fans, many not yet of legal drinking age. While some arrived in the program after too much dorm-room pot smoking, Mr. Arconti’s addiction lasted years. At the height of it, he made frequent “runs” to a drug-infested neighborhood in West Baltimore. Some of his friends have since died. Others are in jail. That was before he woke up one morning in a seedy hotel room and decided his body was spent. He committed to stopping. When there are U. N.C. basketball games Mr. Arconti watches with his recovery friends. Together, they go to Durham Bulls games and amusement parks. But it is at weekly meetings where the recovery ethos shines. Students talk about sober dating, relapse temptations and struggles to make time for studying and recovery. When they speak specifically about their addictions, they are quick to play down the drugs they gravitated toward. Instead, they focus on the illness they share, and the future. During a recent meeting, when it was his turn to talk, Mr. Arconti said: “I’m happy to be here. I’m mentally and spiritually feeling well.”Nationally, more students are seeking treatment. Last year, about one in two patients at the Minnesota youth treatment center of the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation were being treated for opioid addiction. In 2010, one in six were. And the number of opioid-related claims for coverage by Blue Cross Blue Shield has almost doubled since 2010 for college-age patients. The Haven at Drexel is part of a network called the Haven at College, which started in 2012 with one residence, at the <uname>University of Southern California</uname>, where young people could bond over a common struggle. Now there are five — four on or near <uname>California</uname> campuses and the one at Drexel — housing more than 50 young adults.