The result is that women’s voices are underrepresented. Janet Yellen is the only woman to have served as Federal Reserve chairman — and even Ms. Yellen had previously failed to win tenure at <uname>Harvard</uname>. There has never been a female Treasury secretary. Only three women have been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and none served under a Republican president. Women are outnumbered among full professors at so-called top twenty economics departments by a ratio of six to one. The <uname>University of Chicago</uname> has one female full professor of economics; <uname>Northwestern</uname> has none. These studies have forced introspection upon many economists, making it difficult to believe that the field is really a meritocracy. They have forced urgent conversations in faculty lounges and conference hallways in parallel to the broader national conversation about gender and power. In this time of reckoning, the American Economic Association has issued a statement condemning misogyny, and in a recent report it acknowledged that “unacceptable behavior has been allowed to continue through tacit toleration.” The association has recently drafted a code of conduct for the profession. The scarcity of women economists has already had important consequences. Consider the stark differences of opinion revealed in a 2014 survey of professional economists. Fully 63 percent of women said income in the United States should be distributed more equally, compared with only 45 percent of men. Female economists were 13 percentage points less likely to say that the United States government is too large; 18 percentage points less likely to say the United States has excessive government regulation; 20 percentage points more likely to say employers should be required to provide workers with health insurance, and 16 percentage points more likely to say current policies excessively favor economic growth over environmental quality. Perhaps most telling was the question on pay: Only 14 percent of female economists said the gender wage gap is largely explained by differences in education and voluntary occupational choices while 54 percent of male economists agreed with that notion. Other researchers have found that women economists are more likely than men to sign petitions that call for a more active government role in the economy. Women economists tend to focus on different topics than men. While men dominate macroeconomics, women are more visible among those studying labor markets, health and education. The only majority-female economics conference I’ve ever attended was on the economics of children, a field focused on schooling, family structure and child well-being. If there were more female economists, more attention would surely be paid to these issues. The most striking statistics of all come from a survey taken over 20 years ago, in which 98 percent of women economists agreed with the proposition that “there is a ‘good-old-boy’ network in the economics profession.” A smaller majority of men agreed. Without more women in the field, that kind of network is likely to persist.