“These are the changes the whole country needs to make,” said Blaine Favel, the former grand chief of Saskatchewan’s 74 First Nations, or indigenous groups. He was appointed the <uname>University of Saskatchewan</uname>’s chancellor in 2013 — an act of reconciliation in itself, he added.“It hopefully will reverse and remedy the damage done by residential schools,” he said. The <uname>University of Saskatchewan</uname> and its president seem, at first blush, unlikely candidates to lead this movement. Mr. Stoicheff, 60, who calls himself “as white as you get,” arrived on campus in 1986 from Toronto as an English professor. He had a doctoral thesis on Ezra Pound, a passion for playing acoustic guitar and admittedly no knowledge on aboriginal issues. But he quickly learned that Saskatchewan was home to a large aboriginal population, and that it had festered with racial tension since Canadian troops quashed the North-West Rebellion in 1885. Just one month into his presidency in October 2015, Mr. Stoicheff became co-chairman with Mr. Favel of the country’s first university forum on reconciliation.“If it’s not going to be us in a province like this, leading the universities’ response to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, who is it going to be?” Mr. Stoicheff said. “If not now, when?”The university’s existing plans to increase aboriginal student and professor numbers were bolstered, and a new focus was added for university research to be useful to aboriginal communities. Mr. Stoicheff’s mantra has become “nothing about us, without us” — something he has heard repeatedly from aboriginal communities. Last year, the academic governing body agreed that all of the 17 colleges and schools, from dentistry to engineering, should include indigenous knowledge. Once that is added to the official Learning Charter this fall, deans will be expected to fall into compliance within one to two years, according to Patricia McDougall, vice provost of teaching and learning.
 Dancers and dignitaries prepared for the grand entry at the graduation powwow on the <uname>University of Saskatchewan</uname> campus.