Perfectionism is a personality trait or characteristic that is innate in many people. It is nurtured in some environments, notably in families where personal accomplishment, academic or otherwise, is rewarded: “Where self-esteem is earned, not just given out with a trophy for participation,” said Steve Codling, a high school teacher in Seattle who believes in pushing his students as well as his college-age sons to excel and praising them when they do. But for other parents, it’s often difficult to know when perfectionism in their kids is cause for concern: After all, the high standards they set for themselves probably got them into college. The researchers looked at more than 41,000 students’ responses on the Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale, which not only measures degrees of perfectionism but also distinguishes among its three aspects: self-oriented, other-oriented and socially prescribed. And while self-prescribed perfectionism is associated with greater productivity, conscientiousness and career success, many parents are concerned when they see signs that it is affecting their child’s mood and behavior.“Sometimes it’s paralyzing,” Katherine Dieckmann, a filmmaker and professor at <uname>Columbia University</uname>, said of the perfectionist tendencies she sees in her 20-year-old daughter, a college sophomore. “I understand, because we were both born that way.”As an artist, Ms. Dieckmann herself has difficulty letting go of a project or task unless it’s perfect. Like her daughter, she worries it to death, “believing it can be better, which so often is worse.” She recognizes that her daughter’s habit of procrastination is not from lack of motivation but more from a sense that “if she can’t finish it perfectly, she’d rather not do it.” That characteristic carries over into other areas of her life, Ms. Dieckmann said. “She’s the same way about her hobbies, like photography.”
 Another parent, whose son is a student at an Ivy League college, said: “He’s not striving to meet our standards, they’re his own.” The father, whom I cannot name because he is my patient, said: “I keep reminding him that perfect is the enemy of good, and he says, ‘Yeah, but good’s not enough to get into med school.’”Hannah Miller, a <uname>Columbia</uname> graduate student, is candid about her perfectionism. “When it’s not out of control, it’s a good thing to have. When it overwhelms me, which is less often than it did when I was an undergraduate, I have to force myself to step back and make an accurate assessment of how important the task is and consider it thoughtfully rather than emotionally — like, how good does it have to be?”When she finds herself procrastinating until a deadline, she repeats a maxim favored by a high school teacher: Do the best that you can in the time that you have. Ms. Miller said that when she’s stressed and anxious she turns to her close friends for comfort and support, and also to her mother, whose perfectionism, like her own, is mostly self-prescribed. Mother and daughter share a kind of presentational perfectionism, especially about public speaking. Ms. Miller said that her mother “gets over it the same way she tells me to: Prepare thoroughly and it will carry you through.”