In September, an arsonist set fire to the Kissimmee mosque where the killer’s family had sometimes prayed. According to the Council on American-Islamic Relations, incidents of bias against American Muslims increased by more than 50 percent nationwide between 2015 and 2016. It was impossible to block it out even on campus. The administration had pledged its support to the L. G.B. T. community after the Pulse shooting, but did nothing to prevent anti-Muslim rhetoric from circulating. For example, a video of a tenured communications professor at <uname>UCF</uname> surfaced from a few years back in which he called Islam “the problem” as well as a “religion of pieces — piece of body over here, piece of body over there.” He teaches a course called “Terrorism and Communication.”I interviewed this professor for the school paper, and he told me that far from regretting his word choice, he feels emboldened by his critics: The video made his book sales go up and he gets more speaking invitations when Muslim advocacy groups report on his rhetoric. When I asked him to consider whether his words might hurt my Muslim peers on our campus, he replied, “It wouldn’t make a difference to me.”Muslim students have raised concerns about this kind of speech to the <uname>UCF</uname> administration to no avail. The dean of the school of communication did see a problem with his professor’s insensitivity and exclusionary language. But ultimately, the dean told me, he prefers to err on the side of openness, allowing the university to be “a marketplace of ideas.”This has become a common theme — and in some ways, an understandable position for administrators. Colleges are taking heat for their supposed liberal bias; it is bad press for them to be seen as “silencing” more conservative viewpoints. But this isn’t really political conservatism. Muslim students see a direct and detrimental correlation between this kind of talk and the increased threats and prejudice they experience.
 Can you simplify this square root?” Erica Fells asks her class, and hands wave in the air. All but one of the students believe that it’s impossible to do so. The dissenter, Leslie Alcantara, lays out her argument. “What do the rest of you think of Leslie’s reasoning?” Ms. Fells asks, and after some back-and-forth, they agree — she’s correct. These students have been admitted to one of the <uname>City University of New York</uname>’s community colleges. They didn’t score high enough on <uname>CUNY</uname>’s math, reading and writing tests to take the college-credit courses they must pass to earn an associate degree, so they were steered into a catch-up program called <uname>CUNY</uname> Start. Its track record shows that, with good teaching and I-have-your-back counseling, youths who otherwise would likely drop out have a solid shot at making it. The strategy is working: More than half the students who complete the program are ready for college in just one semester, something that’s almost impossible with regular remedial courses. At the start of the term last fall, Ms. Fells told me, many of the students couldn’t handle negative numbers and decimal points. Ten weeks later, they have powered through arithmetic to algebra and are ready for college math.