She also mentioned an idea circulated by two lawyers who represent colleges in sexual assault cases that would establish a system of regional centers, possibly nonprofit organizations or arms of the government, to investigate and adjudicate campus sexual misconduct claims. The prospect of a change in the rules may require colleges to overhaul procedures that are just a few years old. Michael Roth, president of <uname>Wesleyan University</uname>, said Ms. DeVos’s portrayal of the Obama-era guidelines as burdensome to colleges did not reflect his own views or those of other college presidents to whom he has spoken about the issue.“I remember the times when men, with impunity, would throw their weight around,” sexually harassing and assaulting women, Mr. Roth said. “Changing that culture over the last decade, as the Obama administration tried to do, was an enormous contribution.”Mr. Roth acknowledged that disciplinary procedures are imperfect, but he said that men accused of assault at Wesleyan are offered the presumption of innocence, are given access to a counselor, and are shown all relevant evidence pertaining to their case. But Justin Dillon, a lawyer in Washington who has represented dozens of accused college students, said he believed Ms. DeVos’s speech “is being secretly cheered by every university general counsel in the country.”One of his cases involves a <uname>University of Virginia</uname> law school student whose degree was delayed for a year because of a sexual assault complaint. His lawsuit states that the adjudicator, a retired judge, called it a “very close” case but that she had to rule against him because of the “preponderance of evidence” standard.“Fundamentally,” Mr. Dillon said Thursday, “my clients got into this because they felt strongly they wanted to be part of the fight against what they saw as unlawful conduct.”
 BLURRED LINESRethinking Sex, Power and Consent on CampusBy Vanessa Grigoriadis332 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 8. In July Candice E. Jackson, the top civil rights official in Donald Trump’s Department of Education, told The New York Times that 90 percent of campus rape allegations come from women who regret drunken consensual sex. (She later apologized for her “flippant” remarks.) The day after Jackson made this claim, Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, met with groups representing students who say they were falsely accused of sexual assault, including the National Coalition for Men Carolinas. (Says a banner on the group’s website: “Don’t be THAT girl: Embarrassed by a hookup? Angry at a boyfriend? Willing to lie to destroy a life?”)Before the month was over, <uname>Columbia University</uname> announced that it had settled a lawsuit brought by Paul Nungesser, who became infamous after being accused of rape by Emma Sulkowicz, a fellow student. In 2014, outraged by how <uname>Columbia</uname> had handled her sexual assault claim against Nungesser, Sulkowicz began lugging a mattress around campus for an entire school year, an iconic piece of protest art that served as her senior thesis. Nungesser’s suit alleged that <uname>Columbia</uname>, by enabling Sulkowicz’s project, abetted “gender-based harassment” against him. Sulkowicz’s case was emblematic of the movement to use civil rights law to combat campus rape, but in the end the law offered redress to her accused rapist. It’s an irony appropriate to the Trump-era backlash against what his supporters perceived as the far-reaching anti-campus rape policies that took hold during Barack Obama’s presidency. Vanessa Grigoriadis did most of the reporting for her sometimes fascinating but often frustrating new book, “Blurred Lines: Rethinking Sex, Power and Consent on Campus,” during the Obama years, when the movement against campus rape was ascendant. Now as the book is released, the movement is on the defensive. This actually makes the subject of “Blurred Lines” more relevant rather than less. Every empirical claim about campus rape is under ferocious dispute: There’s no consensus about what constitutes sexual assault on campus, how common it is or how it should be prevented. In this confusing climate, a cleareyed elucidation of the murky campus rape phenomenon would be enormously welcome. “Blurred Lines” aims to be that book, but is too sloppy with the facts to succeed.