Particularly hard hit are campuses in the Midwest, according to the institute. At the <uname>University of Iowa</uname>, overall international enrollment this fall was 3,564, down from 4,100 in 2015. Downing Thomas, the university’s dean of international programs, said that some other schools in the Big Ten are also experiencing declines, and none are seeing the rapid increases of the recent past. While <uname>Iowa</uname> primarily lost Chinese students, the <uname>University of Central Missouri</uname> experienced a sharp decline this year in students from India, said Mike Godard, vice provost for enrollment management. In the fall of 2016, the Warrensburg, Mo., university had 2,638 international students. This fall it has 944.
 Parties and pledging activities at most of <uname>University of Michigan</uname>’s fraternities have been suspended, the university said on Friday, the latest in a wave of efforts across the country to tamp down on fraternity excesses leading to sexual misconduct, alcohol and drug abuse and deaths. The student-run Interfraternity Council, which oversees 27 fraternity chapters at the flagship state university, has decreed that social events, like mixers and parties, as well as pledging activities, would be stopped indefinitely. The student newspaper, The Michigan Daily, which first reported the suspension, said that at a meeting of the council on Thursday, council leaders said they were concerned about recent events including: more than 30 hospital transports during the weekend of the Michigan-Michigan State football game; a “Champagne and Shackles” event, in which dates at a party were handcuffed to each other until they finished a bottle of champagne; allegations of drugging of fraternity members, hazing in which pledges were put in near-death situations, and sexual misconduct cases involving fraternity brothers. The action was taken out of concern for “the health and safety of our members,” Alec Mayhan, executive vice president of the Interfraternity Council, said in a statement provided by the university. “We believe that social events are a privilege, and we, as a community, have not earned this privilege at this time.”