Yet “every university requires some level of publication,” said Lawrence DiPaolo, vice president of academic affairs at <uname>Neumann University</uname> in Aston, Pa. Recently a group of researchers invented a fake academic: Anna O. Szust. The name in Polish means fraudster. Dr. Szust applied to legitimate and predatory journals asking to be an editor. She supplied a résumé in which her publications and degrees were total fabrications, as were the names of the publishers of the books she said she had contributed to. The legitimate journals rejected her application immediately. But 48 out of 360 questionable journals made her an editor. Four made her editor in chief. One journal sent her an email saying, “It’s our pleasure to add your name as our editor in chief for the journal with no responsibilities.”The lead author of the Dr. Szust sting operation, Katarzyna Pisanski, a psychologist at the <uname>University of Sussex</uname> in England, said the question of what motivates people to publish in such journals “is a touchy subject.”“If you were tricked by spam email you might not want to admit it, and if you did it wittingly to increase your publication counts you might also not want to admit it,” she said in an email. The consequences of participating can be more than just a résumé freckled with poor-quality papers and meeting abstracts. Publications become part of the body of scientific literature. There are indications that some academic institutions are beginning to wise up to the dangers. Dewayne Fox, an associate professor of fisheries at <uname>Delaware State University</uname>, sits on a committee at his school that reviews job applicants. One recent applicant, he recalled, listed 50 publications in such journals and is on the editorial boards of some of them. A few years ago, he said, no one would have noticed. But now he and others on search committees at his university have begun scrutinizing the publications closely to see if the journals are legitimate.“If something gets published in one of these journals and it’s complete garbage, it can develop a life of its own,” Dr. Fox said.