One of the women, Larissa Boyce, said she was molested by Dr. Nassar for over two years, beginning at age 16, while training with <uname>Michigan State</uname>’s youth gymnastics program in 1997 and 1998. Ms. Boyce said she had told the women’s gymnastics coach at the time, Kathie Klages. But instead of helping, the coach explained to Ms. Boyce that she was probably “misunderstanding” the situation and implied Ms. Boyce would get in trouble if she filed a more formal complaint, according to a lawsuit. Another gymnast said she had also told Ms. Klages about abuse by Dr. Nassar around that time. Ms. Klages retired last year amid the scandal. Her lawyer declined to comment, citing the pending litigation. <uname>Michigan State</uname>’s policies require all employees to promptly report any sexual misconduct that they learn about involving a faculty member, staff member or student. But it is not clear that any of the people who heard the complaints in the late 1990s and early 2000s reported it to university administrators. In a court motion two weeks ago seeking to dismiss the case against the university and its employees, including Ms. Klages, <uname>Michigan State</uname> said supervisors did not even know there were allegations against Dr. Nassar until 2014, when another woman complained to the head of the university’s sports medicine clinic, Jeff Kovan, that Dr. Nassar had massaged her breasts, buttocks and vaginal area. In that case, an investigator consulted with three doctors and a certified athletic trainer, who backed Dr. Nassar’s explanation that his actions were medically appropriate to treat the patient’s pain. Each of the four had a connection to Dr. Nassar: One of the doctors studied under him and was a colleague and friend, the investigative report said; one had known him since 1988 and was a classmate and teaching colleague; one had known him since 1995, and he had treated her daughter; and the trainer worked regularly with Dr. Nassar in the training room, an average of four hours a week for 17 years. The university found that Mr. Nassar’s actions were appropriate and “not of a sexual nature.”Dr. Nassar continued to molest patients, according to lawsuits, and even as late as August 2016, just before victims began to go public, some <uname>Michigan State</uname> employees told gymnasts that Mr. Nassar’s methods were appropriate. The employees also sternly warned gymnasts not to speak to the media, according to allegations in court filings.
 We live in a time of great discord. Republicans and Democrats, conservatives and liberals, and fans and critics of President Trump not only disagree, they often despise each other. In a small way, however, I am trying to change that. I teach at <uname>Harvard University</uname>, where every few years I offer a seminar to a dozen freshmen. The course has the anodyne title “The Economist’s View of the World,” but its purpose is subversive. The goal is to help my students understand and even appreciate the perspectives of those with whom they vehemently disagree. The lesson is one we could all benefit from. Most economics courses taken by first-year college students cover the textbook tools — supply and demand curves, the theory of comparative advantage, the analysis of profit maximization, and so on. We have that course at <uname>Harvard</uname> as well (and I run it), but my seminar is entirely different. It is more like a book club. Every week, we read a book by an economist that is aimed at a general audience. The books represent a wide range of views. Together, the students and I wrestle with each author’s ideas. Which are dubious and which are persuasive? Which force us to rethink our preconceptions?