More important, I also aim for political balance. My seminar application asks, “On issues of economic policy, do you tend to lean toward the LEFT (liberal, progressive, more active government) or RIGHT (conservative, libertarian, more limited government)?” I choose a roughly equal number of students from the two sides of the political spectrum. People are often surprised that I can find enough conservatives at <uname>Harvard</uname>. But while <uname>Harvard</uname>’s faculty is mostly left of center, I’ve found that its students appear to be more representative of the nation. Achieving political balance in the seminar ensures a lively discussion, which benefits all its participants. This year’s seminar met for the first time just a few days ago, but from experience, I can predict what will happen in the coming weeks. During their first term of college, students are especially open to new ideas and new friends. Debating personal perspectives with a small group of peers over 13 weeks won’t necessarily change anyone’s mind, but it will cement friendships among students with opposing points of view. The tolerance and comity learned from those friendships can last a lifetime. In a small way, it can make the world a better place. If you want to participate, find a friend with whom you often disagree and read along with us. The full list of seminar books is posted on my blog.
 Seven days after hundreds of white nationalists paraded tiki torches through the <uname>University of Virginia</uname> campus, Shaun R. Harper, an expert on race and education, stood before the school’s faculty and asked who had been disgusted by the white supremacy on display. Almost every hand rose. He nodded slowly. “Well, then do something about it,” he said. But as students return to campuses nationwide this week, administrators are grappling with what that “something” should be. The racist violence last month in Charlottesville, Va., only punctuated a dramatic spike in white supremacist activity on American campuses that has forced a reckoning among competing values: safety, free speech and a commitment to tolerance and diversity. Some universities, fearing further violence, have responded by squarely prioritizing safety over expression, risking a collision with the First Amendment. Others are reviewing campus safety plans or seeking to counter white supremacists’ message by starting conversations about diversity.“When we talk about recruitment and the potential for violence, it is because the trends tell us this is a problem,” said Jonathan Greenblatt, the chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League. “You saw it play out in Charlottesville.”