At <uname>Reed College</uname> this semester, instructors abandoned the stage during the first meeting of Humanities 110, a required freshman course on early Greek and Mediterranean civilization. “We cannot have our class if we have students interrupting the teaching,” Prof. Elizabeth Drumm announced as a student grabbed a microphone and talked over her. Others joined onstage. One protester held a sign: “Don’t teach us white supremacy.”At <uname>George Mason University</uname>, “a fervent Trump supporter” last summer in Jeremy D. Mayer’s course on the presidency sparred at the start of each class. One session, he dismissed an article Dr. Mayer had cited as fake news, with: “The Washington Post hates Trump!” It was “very frustrating,” Dr. Mayer said. “How can you have a class that touches on current events when you don’t have an accepted, fairly standard source of information?”Even content in fact-heavy courses like biology looks less neutral with hot-button issues like reproduction and genetic testing. It’s why Scott McLean, kinesiology professor at <uname>Southwestern</uname>, is careful when teaching a unit on health insurance. “I really try to present two different sides,” he said. The class movie night showing “McFarland, USA,” about children of migrant workers who excel at cross country, no longer looks like “a free dinner and getaway from the books.” And so a professor who specializes in the mechanics of body movement must now prep for queries about immigration and DACA. Today’s students bring a multiplicity of personal identities to campus — their sexual orientation, race and ethnicity, religion, political leanings — and they want to see that reflected in course content. The values in readings, lectures and even conversations are open to questioning. All good — that’s what college is supposed to be about — except that now the safety screen around the examination of ideas has been pulled away. Higher education is increasingly partisan, and professors must manage these disconnected ideologies, which are sometimes between themselves and their students.