But Ms. Tafesh got her permit and became one of the first students from the Middle East to attend <uname>Wilson College</uname>. Her freshman-year roommate hadn’t heard of Gaza until meeting her. As she began to find a community, Ms. Tafesh made it her mission to educate her peers about her part of the world. She’s given presentations on air pollution from bombings in the Gaza valley and the destruction of natural resources. She taught her roommate some Arabic, and together they would Skype with Ms. Tafesh’s parents overseas, when internet connection in Gaza was available.“I wanted to show my classmates that Palestinians are different then the way they’re represented in Western media,” she said. On Election Day in November 2016, peers who voted against President Trump messaged her to say, “I voted for you today.” When Mr. Trump won, “ people messaged me to ask if I was O. K.,” said Ms. Tafesh. “I’m constantly reminded that there are good things about being here, and that there are people who care.”But Ms. Tafesh was often homesick, especially during wars (two have occurred so far in her time abroad) and when, during her sophomore year, she had to undergo open-heart surgery for a congenital heart condition. “Back home in Gaza, I would probably be dead by now,” she said. Operation Protective Edge, Gaza’s longest and bloodiest war, broke out in July 2014, during the summer before her junior year. Beyond the fear of her own family members turning up among the names of the dead, guilt consumed her. In Pennsylvania, she had constant access to both water and electricity. Back home, her family could have one or the other, with four to five hours of access per day. Back in Gaza, Ms. Tafesh wore a hijab and she arrived at college still wearing one. Now, after the rise in hate crimes against Muslim-Americans and a partial travel ban barring visitors from six Muslim-majority countries, she no longer does. “I got too many looks and stares,” she said. ”I’ve worn it a couple of times, but I just blend in more and do things a lot easier without it.”Wilson pairs international students with locals who are willing to offer support, and in her graduation pictures, Ms. Tafesh stands between an American couple, Bob and Pat Keffer. “Ghada is a very positive person,” said Ms. Keffer. “I know she’s been through a lot in her life, but I never see her down, though she probably is at times. She’s met the rest of my family, she calls my parents grandpa and grandma, and we all love her. I didn’t know too many Muslims, and I’ve learned a lot about the Muslim faith, and that I should be more tolerant.” Though Ms. Tafesh would’ve given anything to stand beside her parents that day, who couldn’t attend her graduation because of the difficulty of getting out of Gaza, the concept of family has taken on a more encompassing meaning for her. “If I didn’t have a sense of family and of home here, I would’ve never been able to stay,” she said. “It keeps me going.”Ms. Tafesh plans to return to Gaza when she finishes her graduate degree this May. By then it will have been almost six years since she’s been home. Once back in Gaza, she wants to teach at a university and expose Gazans to the tenets of a liberal arts education. “You become a bigger thinker here, and you learn to not be such a passive consumer,” she told me. “At the end of the day, I’m doing this to create a better life back home.”
 WASHINGTON — In this age of smartphones and a politically divided public, President Trump’s two youngest children have managed the nearly impossible: They’ve turned up on their respective school campuses without the traditional news media and security brouhaha that surrounds the first day of school for a commander in chief’s child. There was no breathless coverage as 23-year-old Tiffany Trump, the daughter of Mr. Trump and his second wife, Marla Maples, began law school at <uname>Georgetown University</uname> a week ago. On Tuesday, the school year quietly began for Barron Trump, the president’s fifth child and youngest son, who earlier this year enrolled at <uname>St. Andrew Episcopal School</uname> in the leafy, school-bus-clogged enclave of Potomac, Md. The school is 20 miles and at least a 30-minute drive from the White House in morning traffic. Schoolgoing children signal to the public that a first family — even one that shuns Washington traditions — has put down tangible roots in the area. But what appears to be a low-key transition belies the complicated logistics of protecting first children and respecting their privacy, according to W. Ralph Basham and Mark J. Sullivan, two of the Secret Service’s recent directors.“The kid wants you to be part of the woodwork,” Mr. Basham said. “They want to have a normal experience, whether it’s in grade school, high school or college.” But it’s extremely difficult for the Secret Service, he said, “to provide them with that and, at the same time, make sure that nothing happens to them.”