The group marched onto campus, where about 200 people awaited them: anarchists and “anti-fascists” looking like graphic-novel ninjas, with black scarves hiding their faces and hoods covering their hair, flanked by aging professors in rumpled rain slickers. The Patriots’ leader, Joey Gibson, strolled into the crowd of ninjas, where he was  sprayed with Silly String, hit in the head with a can of it and then attacked with what may have been pepper spray before state police officers in riot gear restored order. The college spent 00,000 to rent the minor-league stadium in Tacoma for the commencement on Friday. “I’m very glad we’re all here together,” Mr. Bridges said in his address, acknowledging the “fierce and disturbing” events of recent weeks. Ellis Paguirigan, a 1991 <uname>Evergreen</uname> graduate whose daughter, Melia, was graduating and planned to go into ocean conservation, said they were both disappointed in Professor Weinstein’s stance. Melia had Professor Weinstein in her freshman year and liked his class, Mr. Paguirigan said. But, he added, “my daughter is a person of color — she kind of takes it personal.”
 Olympia, Wash. — <uname>Evergreen State Colleg</uname> is always an unusual school, located on the outskirts of the eclectic town of Olympia, Wash., but something about the end of the school year inspires people to really let their freak flags fly. Drum circles and students with colorful hair and piercings are commonplace, and it’s not out of the ordinary to see the circus club practicing acrobatics. This year is different. Many students are leaving campus as quickly as they can, and some, fearing for their safety, say they won’t come back. A few weeks ago, a video clip of students demonstrating outside the office of Bret Weinstein, a biology professor, went viral. In the clip, students can be seen shouting at Mr. Weinstein and calling him racist. Mr. Weinstein appeared on Tucker Carlson’s Fox News show in a “Campus Craziness” segment and sat for interviews with many other media outlets. In an op-ed for The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Weinstein wrote that students attacked him verbally “seemingly out of the blue” after he objected to an event in which “white people were asked to leave campus” for a day. He said that the college had “slipped into madness.”