Students at <uname>Oxford</uname>’s Faculty of Oriental Studies, where Mr. Ramadan teaches, had complained about the university’s slow response to the allegations, according to Cherwell, a student newspaper. Members of the faculty at first said they expected Mr. Ramadan to continue teaching and supervising students last week, but complaints from students grew, the newspaper reported. Mr. Ramadan’s leave of absence “implies no presumption or acceptance of guilt and allows Professor Ramadan to address the extremely serious allegations made against him,” <uname>Oxford</uname>’s statement said, “while meeting our principal concern — addressing heightened and understandable distress, and putting first the well-being of our students and staff.”Asked about students’ complaints, Eugene Rogan, director of the Middle East Center at <uname>St. Anthony</uname>’s, emphasized that student security was a paramount concern.“It is important to note that since the reported meeting Tariq Ramadan has not taught at <uname>Oxford</uname> and, in fact, has not been in the city,” he said in a statement. “Nevertheless, my colleagues and I contacted each of Professor Ramadan’s students, and made alternative teaching arrangements for any student who asked for them.”
 Private scholarships should be a lifeline for students who want to avoid debt. But there’s an awful glitch in the system: Students who get private scholarships risk losing financial aid they were awarded from their state or school. Their private scholarships don’t save them a dime. Like many students, when I thought about college I worried most about affording it. <uname>Rice University</uname>, in Houston, where I am a senior, is known for generous financial aid packages, but I still had to take out student loans to cover the full cost. As a college freshman, I saw an episode of “Shark Tank” on which an entrepreneur claimed that millions of private scholarships go unused every year. He was pitching Mark Cuban and the other investors on an app that was intended to match students with private scholarships. I was fascinated: Maybe I could avoid taking on thousands of dollars in debt in college. All I had to do was answer a few questions, submit my résumé and personal statement, and wait to collect. But when I talked with friends who were also concerned about financing college, they told me that I probably shouldn’t bother applying for private scholarships. They told me about a significant wrinkle in my plan. It’s called “scholarship award displacement.”