From the outside, that world looks brutal, at least for young women who have internalized the idea that empowerment means mastering a coldly performative sexuality. At one point, a radical feminist at <uname>Wesleyan University</uname> admits her dislike of pornography in a whisper, saying, “You’re not supposed to say you feel that way.” It’s as if the only taboo desire is the desire for sexual taboos. A female <uname>Georgetown University</uname> graduate gives a heartbreaking account of how hookups boost her confidence: “In the moment, it’s ‘This guy thinks I’m hot, this guy thinks I’m special,’ because the attention that a man gives you when he wants to have sex with you is the most singular and focused you can get him to be on you.”Grigoriadis also spends hours with students who claim to have been falsely accused, as well as with their crusading parents. She starts to sympathize with them, but is brought up short by a young man expressing bitterness at being punished for rape without actually getting to rape anyone. “Man, I wish I could have gotten some of that sexual assault,” he says. “Not really violent sexual assault, but I wish I could have done the sort of borderline.” Suddenly, he doesn’t seem so innocent anymore. “Blurred Lines” is at its most compelling when we see Grigoriadis discovering the ambiguities in the stories she’s covering and recalibrating her own assumptions in response.
 Jack Rivlin, who founded Tab Media with two other <uname>Cambridge University</uname> students in 2009 and now splits his time between New York and London, envisions the enterprise as a generation-defining media brand à la MTV. Other publications should beware, said Mr. Rivlin, 28, who jokes that he has only recently begun to grow facial hair: “I want to eat their lunch.”In Tab’s Williamsburg office — there’s another in London’s Shoreditch neighborhood — story ideas slingshot around the room, from the <uname>Pennsylvania State University</uname> hazing trial to wedding training programs at high schools to potential Dream Act-related deportations. There was also an idea from one correspondent to report on local sex parties by participating in several.