The umbrella organization is run by two former users — alcohol and heroin were their drugs of choice. The cost is ,900 to ,800 a month, which can be defrayed by financial aid, alumni funds earmarked for recovery and Haven work-study. Students who live in the houses receive meals, coaching from a licensed clinician and support from a house manager who monitors their whereabouts. There are curfews for newcomers, penalties for missing them and chores for everyone. But mostly, students say, there is camaraderie. Most of the houses are near dorms or fraternity houses, in what Holly Sherman, a founder and the executive director, calls the “war zone of party central.” Still, or perhaps because of this, it is not uncommon to have dozens of people show up for the Saturday night meeting. Ms. Sherman says students arrive on campus and wonder: “‘How am I going to stay sober if I can’t find a sober community?’ What we do is work with the university to establish that community for them.”Matthew, a 24-year-old former varsity athlete, sometimes attends the meetings. A May graduate of <uname>Albright College</uname> in Reading, Pa., he asked that his last name not be used because he wants to work as a financial adviser or analyst at a Fortune 500 company. But the opioid obsession he developed in college is getting in the way. He hopes the experiences of other students, many of whom know well the allure of opioids but have managed to kick the habit, will rub off on him. He was handed a “Perc” freshman year by an older teammate he looked up to. At the time, he was at a small Catholic college in a Philadelphia suburb. “I’m in college,” he recalled thinking. “Let’s experiment, let’s party. He’s cool. I want to be cool.”Soon after, a dealer introduced him to heroin. He began snorting before class, while doing homework and instead of going to parties and drinking. The heroin made all the drudgeries — homework, dining hall food, boring classes — seem manageable. “During Accounting 101, I’m in the bathroom snorting heroin, thinking: ‘I’ve got to get back to class.’”