To the Editor:Re “An Odd Couple Is Pushing for college cost clarity,” by Ron Lieber (Your Money column, Oct. 21):The confusing language of college financial aid offers is especially overwhelming for first-generation and working-class students. The lack of transparency is a problem after admission as well, with little guidance to help students stay on track to complete a degree in four years. Tens of millions of Americans have started college and taken out loans, but failed to graduate. The trap of debt-but-no-degree explains the seeming paradox that those with loans of ,000 to ,000 default at a rate of 34 percent, while those borrowing more than 00,000 default at a much lower rate of 18 percent. Those who drop out lack the credentials for the higher-paying jobs needed to repay loans. Colleges must do a better job of explaining marketplace realities to their customers. ROBERT O. CARR, <uname>PRINCETON</uname>, N. J.The writer, the founder and chief executive of Give Something Back, a scholarship program, is the author of “Working Class to College.”
 Earlier this week, <uname>Harvard University</uname> revealed that it had rescinded admissions offers to at least 10 students who shared offensive images within what they thought was a private Facebook group chat. The students posted memes and images that mocked minority groups, child abuse, sexual assault and the Holocaust, among other things. It is easy for parents to be left wondering, “What were they thinking?”Over the past few years, memes — usually images or videos with text often meant to be funny or sarcastic in nature — have become one of the most popular ways, along with photos and videos, that youth communicate on social media. While some of that communication can be positive, allowing teenagers to explore their own identity development and find a sense of belonging, it can also get teens in trouble. Sharing videos, images and memes creates the opportunity for an instantaneous positive feedback loop that can perpetuate poor decision making. In an environment where teens spend around nine hours using some form of online media every day, it doesn’t take long for them to be influenced by an “all-about-the-likes” sense of values that can potentially lead to life-altering decisions. I’ve spent nearly two decades working with teens on organization and time-management in the heart of the Silicon Valley, and many teen girls tell me they have a real Instagram account (“rinsta”) for a wider audience and then keep a “finsta” (friends-only or “fake” Instagram) for their closest friends.