 “We’re against the mass media,” explained one occupier, who declined to give his name, saying it was a policy of the occupation not to grant interviews without consent of “the general assembly.” He was standing in what was once the lobby of the auditorium, its walls now covered with insurrectionist stickers, graffiti, posters and murals.“I don’t want to be assimilated into the mass media,” he said.But what is absolutely clear is that the administration of <uname>UNAM</uname>, the largest university in Latin America with more than 230,000 undergraduate and graduate students, lost control of the building nearly two decades ago.And despite the occupation’s widespread unpopularity on campus, the university authorities seem incapable of, or uninterested in, regaining possession and returning it to the general use of the <uname>UNAM</uname> community.(The occupiers do not have a monopoly on reticence: <uname>UNAM</uname>’s communications office ignored or refused repeated requests for interviews and information about the matter.)The occupation began after a crippling student strike that started in 1999 and stretched for more than nine months. Strikers were protesting the administration’s attempt to raise tuition for some students, threatening the institution’s longstanding promise of a nearly free, quality education.The auditorium had for years been a focus of political and cultural life on campus, hosting presentations and conferences involving prominent writers and intellects from Latin America and elsewhere. Since the late 1960s, the building has been commonly known as the Che Guevara Auditorium.“This has been the most politically symbolic space that the university has had in its entire history,” said Imanol Ordorika Sacristán, head of <uname>UNAM</uname>’s office of institutional evaluation.
 While a student at <uname>UNAM</uname>, Mr. Ordorika was a prominent activist, helping to lead a strike in 1987 against tuition increases. He and his comrades used the auditorium for assemblies and meetings, as did successive generations of student activists.During the strike of 1999-2000, the protest leaders made the auditorium their base of operations. But in September 2000, months after the strike had ended, some activists took up residence there, beginning the long occupation.For many years the occupation operated as a collective of various radical groups, though its composition mutated, sometimes violently.In 2013, for instance, self-proclaimed anarchists drove other groups out of the building, according to local news accounts. Three months later, however, a band of rivals stormed the auditorium and ejected the anarchists. Later the anarchists — armed with metal rods, fire extinguishers and sticks embedded with nails — violently retook control of the building.The university administration issued a denunciation of the violence and ordered “the immediate surrender” of the auditorium, to no avail.The building is hard to miss. Its exterior walls are now tattooed with murals and graffiti and draped with banners covered in hand-painted slogans demanding the liberty of imprisoned comrades and urging revolution. “Burn the jail,” one banner says.
