 Fifty-eight percent of colleges and universities surveyed by the business officers association said their number of students has declined. The problem is worst for small private, nonprofit and second-tier public institutions in the Midwest and Northeast, where the college-age population has fallen fastest. The slide is projected by the Western Interstate Commission for Higher Education to continue through at least 2023.This has sped up the practice of offering discounts to fill seats. “I don’t think universities have a choice not to,” said Luke Behaunek, dean of students at <uname>Simpson College</uname> in Indianola, Iowa. He presented a sobering paper about the trend in April at the American Educational Research Association’s annual meeting. “The discount rate is a symptom of the larger things they’re facing,” Mr. Behaunek said. “The margins these institutions are operating at are much thinner than the public understands.”Here’s how thin: Thanks to rising discounts, small colleges reported an average revenue increase per freshman of just two-tenths of a percent last year, which means they lost ground when inflation is accounted for.
 Ken Redd, director of research and policy analysis at the business officers association, said: “Are there enough students out there? Is there enough money out there in a time of declining enrollment to support all of those schools. Based on what we see now, you’d have to say the answer is no.”Chief business officers on campuses agree with him. More than four in 10 don’t think their current financing models are sustainable. “Hearing that from the chief business officers is very telling,” Mr. Redd said.One solution they’ve tried: building or renovating space in the hope of luring students, especially high-income ones. But many smaller institutions that borrowed money to do this have smaller enrollments now than they did then, meaning more debt and less tuition revenue to pay it back, according to the higher-education construction consulting firm Sightlines. This even as their existing buildings need a collective billions of dollars worth of long-postponed repairs, the company says.So universities and colleges are getting serious about other kinds of reforms. Some, as in Georgia, are dramatic — and controversial. Several campus mergers there were announced only days before they were voted on by the Board of Regents, without enough notice for the public to sign up to comment. A similar proposal was put on the table in April by the Connecticut State Colleges and Universities (which does not include the <uname>University of Connecticut</uname>) in the wake of an enrollment drop and state budget cuts, only to be protested by faculty and students.“Change is not easy, particularly when you’ve got institutions that have been around for 100 years” said Charlie Sutlive, vice chancellor for communications and governmental affairs at the <uname>University System of Georgia</uname>.Some of this change is being pushed from the outside. Several higher education associations, with money from the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation, have set up a group of 31 colleges, universities and systems called the Frontier Set to exchange ideas that have worked to lower costs and improve success rates — mostly around improving student retention, including through technology, which saves institutions money.
