 In his letter, Mr. Hamilton addressed the issue. “I understand, too, that faculty are concerned that the nature of our relationship with our Abu Dhabi partners may have led us to respond differently to the visa denials than we did to changes in U.S. immigration policy,” he wrote. He went on to suggest that the visas were not denied because the country was trying to exclude certain groups, but for reasons specific to the people who were rejected. There are faculty members and students who are Shiite, Sunni, Jewish and Christian at the campus, the president wrote.Alya El Hosseiny, an Egyptian doctoral student, was awarded a research fellowship from <uname>NYU</uname>’s Abu Dhabi institute for 2016 but was denied a visa by the government. She was active in the Arab Spring revolts and is still linked on social media to people in prison in Egypt, she said. She speculated that those factors contributed to her denial. In 2011, as waves of discontent spread into the United Arab Emirates, the government cracked down on reformers, jailing protesters and successfully maintaining its power.“I think that preventing scholars from doing their work is completely unfair, completely unjust. And it stands directly in opposition to academic freedom,” Ms. El Hosseiny, 28, said on the telephone from Cairo, where she is completing her fellowship.
 The victim in an infamous 2015 sexual assault case at <uname>Stanford University</uname> is no longer participating in a plan to create a plaque marking the site where she was attacked after the school dismissed her suggested wording for the engraving, a law professor there said on Monday.“I found the rejection shocking,” the professor, Michele Landis Dauber, wrote in an email. She is a family friend of the victim, known in court by the pseudonym Emily Doe.Instead of Ms. Doe’s selections, which have not been revealed by either side in the dispute, the university suggested alternatives for the inscription, including the phrase “I’m O.K., everything’s O.K.,” from her court statement, a passage that had been taken out of context, Professor Dauber said.A spokeswoman for <uname>Stanford</uname>, Lisa Lapin, said in an email that Ms. Doe’s suggested excerpts from the statement “were not consistent with a contemplative space and the intention of a place where members of our community could seek solace.”
