 That explains why the best freshman residence halls are the ones often dreaded and reviled by prospective students. They are the ones with shared bathrooms, long, open hallways, centrally located common areas and multistudent rooms, requiring students to meet other students, like it or not.It’s for their own good. The fad at some colleges for “apartment-style dorms,” by contrast, lead newcomers to be isolated just when they most need connections. Too often, young people realize too late what may be in their best interest.DANIEL F. CHAMBLISSCLINTON, N.Y.The writer is a professor of sociology at <uname>Hamilton College</uname>.To the Editor:My nephew recently began his first year at <uname>Purdue University</uname>. It has an elaborate orientation program that includes teams of 12 to 15 students. The teams stay together throughout the orientation, including eating meals together. Not all the teams bond, but my nephew’s did. He has instant community. They already had a party together, go rock climbing and swimming together, eat together and watched a movie together. We, his family, are grateful for his connection with new friends.MARY CAPRON, TITUSVILLE, N.J.To the Editor:Having been dropped off at a college 1,800 miles from home, I remember the terror that seized me as I looked around my dorm room. But it was 1965 and you couldn’t even phone home without costing your parents an arm and a leg, let alone FaceTime your best friend from high school.But immersion really worked, and I remember the rush of happiness and confidence I felt as I realized I could overcome my fear and loneliness and make new connections, new loves, new friends. I never thought about how today’s technologies facilitate an unanticipated and involuntary clinging.WROE A. CLARK, DENVER
 As sexual abuse reports against Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar flooded in a year ago, besieged officials at <uname>Michigan State University</uname> announced they had ordered an internal review. Overseeing it would be Patrick J. Fitzgerald, a former federal prosecutor whose reputation for investigations into mobsters, terrorists and corrupt politicians led admirers to deem him a modern-day Eliot Ness.Last month, Mr. Fitzgerald wrote that no one at the university understood what Dr. Nassar, a faculty member and team physician, was up to until the victims began going to the news media in 2016.“While many in the community today wish that they had identified Nassar as a predator, we believe the evidence in this case will show that no one else at MSU knew that Nassar engaged in criminal behavior,” he wrote in a letter to the state’s attorney general.But <uname>Michigan State</uname> had conducted an inquiry into Dr. Nassar’s actions before. In 2014, a woman complained to the head of the university’s sports medicine clinic that Dr. Nassar had inappropriately touched her, prompting a Title IX review that concluded, based on consultation with the doctor’s colleagues, that his actions were “not of a sexual nature.” Five women have said in lawsuits that as early as the late 1990s, they had reported sexual abuse by Dr. Nassar to university coaches, trainers or counselors.
