 Ms. Gottlieb, of the Gottlieb &amp; Associates law firm, declined to comment further or to say anything more about her client, including his age and what he hoped to study. But Jeffrey M. Gottlieb, the founder of the firm, wrote in an email that private lawyers had to step in to promote web accessibility, given the lack of government action.“When ‘lawsuit-reform’ organizations protest about the nature of these lawsuits, they are only advancing the interests of wealthy corporate interests that fund them,” he wrote. “If they were truly reform oriented, they would advocate for more government intervention to protect the rights of those who most need protection.”Most of the colleges did not respond to requests for comment. A spokesman for <uname>Iona College</uname> said that it “takes all matters of discrimination seriously and strives to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and appropriately. The college will continue to ensure everyone has equitable access to its facilities including its website.”Some disability rights advocates, acknowledging the charges that some lawyers are just looking to cash in, have distanced themselves from the suits.“We do not condone just filing a blizzard of lawsuits in order to get settlements. That’s not solving the underlying problem,” said Chris Danielson, public relations director for the National Federation of the Blind. His organization has pushed instead for clearer federal guidelines on web accessibility.Critics have also pointed to the Berkeley case as evidence that the strategy can go awry. After the Department of Justice found the university to be in violation of the disabilities act, Berkeley responded by taking down more than 20,000 publicly accessible videos and audio files, a move administrators had called “unenviable” but unavoidable given the “extremely expensive” cost of compliance.But disability rights lawyers and advocates said the concerns were misplaced.“There will always be lawyers who are eager to find business,” Ms. Kanter, the <uname>Syracuse</uname> professor, said. “But if the university is vulnerable, and if they have violated the law by not providing accessibility, that’s what the role of lawyers should be, which is to monitor such complaints.”
