 “One rape is one too many,” she said. “One assault is one too many. One aggressive act of harassment is one too many.”But her remarks focused more heavily on the young men who, she said, were denied due process in campus proceedings, sometimes attempting suicide.She referred to campus sexual misconduct hearings as “kangaroo courts” that forced administrators to act as “judge and jury.” Referring to scores of lawsuits filed by punished students, she said: “Survivors aren’t well served when they are re-traumatized with appeal after appeal because the failed system failed the accused. And no student should be forced to sue their way to due process.”She suggested that colleges had gone too far in other types of cases, too. In the speech, Ms. DeVos referred to a case at the <uname>University of Southern California</uname> in which the football team’s kicker, Matt Boermeester, was suspended from school and kicked off the squad after being investigated for physically assaulting his girlfriend. The girlfriend later spoke out in defense of Mr. Boermeester, saying no assault had happened.In a statement Thursday, the university said it stood by its investigation, and that evidence from multiple witnesses suggested “an act of violence took place that violated our university codes of conduct and Title IX regulations.”
 Most controversially, it asked schools to adopt a “preponderance of evidence” standard in evaluating accusations, a lower bar than many schools had previously used. In essence, schools would hold accused students responsible if more than 50 percent of the evidence pointed to their guilt. Previously, many universities had required “clear and convincing” evidence to substantiate an accusation, meaning that the claim is highly probable.Many cases involve alcohol-clouded sexual encounters where only two people were present, contributing to the difficulty of evaluating accusations, which often come down to determining whether a woman was sober enough to give consent.Critics of the Obama administration’s guidance to colleges complained that it was unfair to use a standard of proof that was far lower than that used in criminal law, since disciplinary actions and expulsions that result from ambiguous sexual encounters can stigmatize young men long into the future, affecting their educational and job prospects. The critics argued that if sexual assault had, in fact, taken place, it should be a matter for the police.Ms. DeVos appeared to side with this point of view, saying Thursday that “Washington dictated that schools must use the lowest standard of proof.”But victims’ groups say that criminal law is the wrong model for colleges, which do not have the investigative and subpoena powers of law enforcement, and that the more aggressive guidance issued by the Obama administration helped make colleges safer for women, correcting a previous imbalance in which accusers were often not taken seriously.In a statement, the National Women’s Law Center said Ms. DeVos’s plan to issue new rules to colleges was “a blunt attack on survivors of sexual assault.”“It will discourage schools from taking steps to comply with the law — just at the moment when they are finally working to get it right,” the group said. “And it sends a frightening message to all students: Your government does not have your back if your rights are violated.”Although her speech was short on details of what the administration’s new rules might look like, Ms. DeVos mentioned a proposal by the American Bar Association that entails independent three-person panels to adjudicate complaints, and a requirement that campuses provide advisers to both sides; and another proposal by the <uname>American College of Trial Lawyers</uname> that would shift to the “clear and convincing” standard of proof.
